===== PAGE 1 =====
1 
 
 
 
 
 
COURT 
MARTIAL 
 
The “I’m tired of you, go to prison” Splatbook for Mythic. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 100DOS expansion to be used with any edition of Mythic.

===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
 
COURT MARTIAL 
A Court Martial is a le gal proceeding within the military ’s justice 
system and this Splatbook is designed to maintain order, discipline, 
and integrity. Court Martial will adjudicate cases of Characters who 
have violated the established rules of engagement and military law.  
 
DISSENTION WITHIN THE RANKS 
In Court Martial , Dissention is when a Character refuses, disr upts, 
ignores, or opposes a superior ’s order or policy. Many things can be 
considered Dissention , from subtle questioning of authority or 
actions to outright refusal or mutiny. 
 As the Commanding Officer or Fireteam Lead (Team Lead), 
you are tasked with maintaining discipline and order within your unit. 
Whenever a Character drastically misbehaves , they will gain 
Dissention Points. 
 
LEADERSHIP TESTS 
Leadership Tests , in terms of Dissention, can be important to the 
outcome of Court Martials or just following orders in general. For 
every Degree of Suc cess on Leadership Tests that were broken or 
ignored by a Character, Dissention Points will be increased by 5, to a 
maximum of 20. 
 
DISSENTION POINTS 
A Character will gain Dissention P oints whenever they perform 
anything the Team Lead  may attempt to classify as Dissention. This 
can be amplified by Successful Leadership Tests being ignored.  The 
Team Lead could also attempt to make up evidence or information, 
which can be played out in the court. 
 Below is the Dissention Table, which will list various 
Dissention and Crimes and the amount of Dissention Points gained for 
various Actions.  These are examples and the GM may add more if 
needed. 
 Dissention Points have two main Modifiers, Commander ’s 
Actions and Situation. Each of these will modify the situation and the 
actual amount of gained Dissention Points. Situation Modifier is 
figured first, and then the Commander’s Actions Modifier. 
 
CRIME DISSENTION POINTS 
Unjust or unsound subordinate surrender 100 
Murdering fellow soldier 100 
Aiding the enemy 90 
Espionage 85 
Murdering a civilian 80 
Mutiny 75 
Rape 70 
Desertion 50 
Lying to command 35 
Misbehavior in Mass Combat 30 
Assaulting a superior officer 25 
Retaliation for previous Dissention Case 20 
Forcing a safeguard 15 
Assault 15 
Misuse of countersigns 15 
Racism 5 
 
 
SITUATION MODIFIER 
Situation Modifiers are a modifier where various situations will 
reduce the total amount of gained Dissention Points. As long as there 
can be proof or argument that these situations were factual, they will 
come into play during the court proceedings.  Dissention Points will 
always round up when divided. 
 
SITUATION MODIFIER 
Event was accidental 1/2 
Mutually disorganized situation 1/2 
Overrun or overtly stressed 1/4 
Unwise towards current situation 1/2 
 
COMMANDER’S ACTIONS MODIFIER 
The Commander’s Actions is the first Dissention Point modifier, which 
covers the actions of the Team Lead that lead to the Dissention Points 
being gained in the first place. For example, if the Commander had 
called for unjust or dangerous actions that could lead to war crimes, 
a trial would be thrown out, regardless of the actions taken. 
 
COMMANDER’S ACTIONS, ISSUED COMMANDS MODIFIER 
To perform War Crimes Trial thrown out 
That put everyone in danger -50 
That were impossible -40 
That was wrongly made -30 
That were not important -20 
That could have saved someone +20 
That could have saved many lives +30 
That could have won the battle +50 
 
COURT OUTCOMES 
To figure the outcome of the court proceedings, each case must be 
argued and defended. Each Crime must be brought up and discussed, 
it mus t have some sort of evidence, word of mouth, or argument. 
Then, the Situation Modifier must be shown with some sort of 
evidence, word of mouth, or argument. And finally, the Commander’s 
Actions will be brought up and must be shown with some sort of 
evidence, word of mouth, or argument. 
 Once everything has been agreed upon by the GM who is 
acting as the judge, total Dissention Points  that the court agrees on  
are tallied. If at any point a Character ends with negative Dissention 
Points, the Team Lead will gain Dissention Points equal to the amount 
of Dissention Points that were in the negatives. From there, the Team 
Lead can be brought into justice for their actions against those they 
were supposed to keep safe and properly command. 
 Below are the outcomes based on final Dissention Points. 
 
DISSENTION POSSIBLE OUTCOME 
0 – 10 Case is thrown out and nothing happens. 
11 – 30 
The Character receives a slap on the wrist . All 
Dissention Points later gained will receive an 
additional +5. 
31 – 40 The Character receives a strict warning. All Dissention 
Points later gained will receive an additional +10. 
41 – 60 The Character is Discharged. 
61 – 70 The Character is Dishonorably Discharged. 
71 – 100 
The Char acter is Dishonorably Discharged and 
sentenced 1 year of prison time for every Dissention 
Point above 70. 
101+ 
The Character will see the rest of their life in prison. If 
the GM sees fit, the Character is subjugated to a firing 
squad and put to death.
