===== PAGE 1 =====
M Y T H I C 
ECONOMICS 
Designed for Civilian and Business financial interactions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Update 1.0: Houses, Farms, and Investments 
 
 
A commissioned financial expansion for Mythic 6.1 and newer

===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
CONTENTS 
 
TRADES ............................................................................ 3 
LEARNING TRADES ...................................................... 3 
WORKING WITHOUT A TRADE .................................... 3 
JOB PAYMENT ............................................................. 3 
ECONOMIC RULES ........................................................... 4 
AVAILABILITY ............................................................... 4 
QUALITY ...................................................................... 4 
EXCHANGING CURRENCY ............................................ 4 
BLACK MARKET DEALS ................................................ 4 
BUYING IN BULK .......................................................... 4 
AVAILABILITY ............................................................... 5 
QUALITY ...................................................................... 5 
RESEARCH AND MANUFACTURING................................. 6 
RESOURCES ................................................................. 6 
FABRICATION AND MANUFACTURING ....................... 6 
RESEARCHING FOR MANUFACTURING ....................... 6 
PROTOTYPING ............................................................. 6 
IMPROVING QUALITY .................................................. 6 
UNFINISHED PROTOTYPES .......................................... 7 
SELLING PRODUCTS ......................................................... 7 
RATE OF SALES ............................................................ 7 
SELLING IN BULK ......................................................... 7 
PRODUCTION AND INFRASTRUCTURE ............................ 8 
PRODUCTION LINES:  TIME AND COST ....................... 8 
RENTING PRODUCTION LINES .................................... 8 
INFRASTRUCTURE ....................................................... 8 
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION ......................................... 9 
BUILDING DEMOLITION .............................................. 9 
SELLING A BUILDING ................................................... 9 
PURCHASING BUILDINGS ............................................ 9 
SPENDING INFRASTRUCTURE ................................... 10 
TAXES, TARIFFS, TOLLS .................................................. 11 
SMUGGLING.............................................................. 11 
BANKS AND LOANS ....................................................... 12 
INTEREST RATES ........................................................ 12 
FAILING TO PAY LOANS ............................................. 12 
INSURANCE ............................................................... 12 
PATENTING YOUR PRODUCTS ...................................... 13 
LICENSING FOR PRODUCTS ....................................... 13 
INVESTING .................................................................... 13 
BEING INVESTED IN ................................................... 13 
BUSINESS AND INVESTMENT EVENTS ...................... 14

===== PAGE 3 =====
3 
TRADES 
 
LEARNING TRADES 
Trades are the same as Educations but learned as a way to perform a 
service. If a Character has an Education, they may learn the Trade 
version of it at only 50 Experience  or by paying the difference in 
Experience between the two. 
 
TRADE LIMITATIONS 
Trades and Educations share the same limi ts for how many can be 
taken. However, an Education and Trade that cover the same topic 
can be combined into one. 
 
LACKING A TRADE 
A Character lacking a Trade  will not be able to properly perform the 
service required. A Character without the Woodworking Trade will 
not be able to perform the Woodworking service for profit. If the 
Character has an Education that would work for a Trade, they may 
perform the service with the pay reduced by 1. 
 
WORKING WITHOUT A TRADE 
Use Trades the same way you’d use Educations. This includes 
Education Tests, Skill Use, and any other rules involved. There are jobs 
that can be done without a trade, such as manual labor . These jobs 
have a Pay of 1  and can still receive the benefit of gaining Fatigue to 
increase the Pay for the day. 
JOB PAYMENT 
When performing a Trade for service, the Character will receive Pay 
based on the Trade. Pay is the daily amount of cR the Character gains. 
When a Character performs a service, they are spending a minimum 
of 8 hours of the day working. 
While working, the Character makes a test by rolling a D100. 
The following Chart will show the outcome of the Character being 
able to find work and having the option to take extra work for 
increased Pay at the cost of Fatigue. Extra work is optional. 
 
 
TEST RESULT 
01-05 The Character couldn’t find proper work for the day. Pay 
is reduced by 1. 
06-75 The Character finds work as normal. Pay is unaltered. 
76-85 The Character is able to find extra work. Pay is increased 
by 1 and the Character gains +1 levels of Fatigue. 
86-90 The Character finds plenty of extra work. Pay is increased 
by 2 and the Character gains +2 levels of Fatigue. 
91-100 
The character finds a lot of extra work, Pay is doubled and 
the Character gains +3 levels of Fatigue.  If the pay being 
doubled wouldn’t pay more than the previous Result, 
increase pay by until it is 1 higher. 
TRADES TYPE DESCRIPTION PAY +5 +10 
Architecture Advanced Knowledge of building, blueprints, and more. Covers Masonry and Carpentry. Used with Technology and 
Security Skills. 5 125 250 
Armor Smithing Basic Armor and Battle Dress Uniform repair. Covers non-Powered or Semi-Powered Armors only. 4 100 150 
Artist Basic The ability to paint or perform other artistic expression. Used with any Social Skills. 3 75 150 
Banker Advanced Negotiation and Technology Skills. 4 100 200 
Blacksmithing Basic Armor creation and repair. Used with Technology Skill. 4 100 200 
Cobbling Basic Shoe craftwork, creation and repair. Used with Technology Skill. 2 50 100 
Cooking Basic Food preparation, serving, and other food-related jobs. Use with Technology and Survival Skills. 2 50 100 
Cyberneticist Advanced Technology and Intellect Skills. 2 150 300 
Demolitions Advanced While the Education for Demolitions is Basic, the Trade is Advanced as you are doing difficult chemical 
work on a daily basis to create explosives. Used with Demolition and Technology Skills. 5 125 250 
Entertainer Basic Knowledge of entertainment, including music, comedy, etc. Covers Entertainers, Jesters, and Musician. 
Used with any Social Skills. 2 50 100 
Escorting Basic Knowledge of locations, travel, and safety. Put to use escorting others safely to desired locations. Covers 
Escort, Drayman, Ferryman and Watchman. Used with Navigation and Survival Skills. 5 125 250 
Factory Work Basic Working factory lines, production lines, packaging, etc. Technology Skill. 4 50 100 
Farming Basic Farming of crops, food, and plant life. Used with Survival< technology, and Investigation Skills. 3 75 150 
Handler Advanced Capability of handling and training animals. Covers Messenger Pidgeon, Dog Trainer, Mount Trainer, and 
others involving animals. Used with Survival and any Social Skills. 3 75 150 
Hunting Basic Hunting and fishing for food. Includes foraging for plant life. Used with Investigation, Athletics, 
Technology, Security, and Survival Skills. 3 75 150 
Jeweler Advanced Molding, carving, cutting, and more. Covers metals and stones for jewelry. Used with Technology Skill. 6 150 300 
Locksmithing Basic Creating and repairing locks and keys, unlocking locks and replacing keys. Used with Technology and 
Security Skills. 3 75 150 
Mechanic Basic Repair and upkeep on vehicles. Used with Technology Skill. 3 100 200 
Medication Advanced The use of medication, doctor work, and more. Used with Medication, Survival, and Technology Skills. 6 150 300 
Merchant Basic One that buys and sells goods, including travel and trade. Used with any Social Skills. 3 75 150 
Merchant Basic Negotiation Skill. 3 75 150 
Religion Basic Jobs based on religion, whether it be a pastor, a pardoner, and more. Used with any Social Skills. 2 50 100 
Tailoring Basic Clothing creation, alteration, and repair. Covers Tailoring, Glover, Hatmaker and Seamstress. Used with 
Technology and Survival Skills. 2 50 100 
Weapon 
smithing 
Basic Weapon creation and repair. Covers Weapon Smithing and Cutler. Used with Technology Skill. 4 100 200 
Weaver Basic Basketwork, weaving work, and the creation of cloth. Covers Weaver and Ropemaker. Used with Survival 
and Technology Skills. 2 50 100 
Wordworking Basic The use of carving, cutting, and assembling with wood. Covers Cartwright, Woodcarver, and more. Used 
with Technology and Survival Skills. 3 75 150

===== PAGE 4 =====
4 
 
ECONOMIC RULES 
 
AVAILABILITY 
Trade systems were slow, bartering was common, and many places 
were closed off from the rest of the outside world. The GM may roll 
to see if any requested goods and services are available. 
 The GM may apply further changes to the Availability 
percentage based on narrative themes such as  material shortages, 
war, trade route issues,  overabundance, etc. 
 On failed rolls, the GM and Players may reroll with a +10 to 
the Availability percentage to find if the item they’re looking for can 
be delivered from another town. In doing so, the GM then rolls 5D10 
to see how many days it would take for the item to arrive. For each 
day, the price of the items being delivered are increased by 1 cR. 
 
QUALITY 
Quality is an optional Rule GMs can use to introduce more interesting 
scenarios in the world of buying and selling. When a Character is 
looking at equipment to buy or are scavenging from a battle, the GM 
can roll a D100. The result of  this roll is the quality of the weapon, 
which can be found in the table at the bottom of the page. 
 Characters may use their Investigation Skill to determine 
the quality. This may be improved with Educations such as Armor and 
Weaponsmith. If Successful, the Character determines the quality. 
 The GM may use this to sell Characters lesser goods at 
normal prices if they fail their Investigation Tests.  The GM may then 
let the Player know the quality of their weapon when they first make 
an Attack with it, or the Armor when they are first struck. 
 The GM may also let Characters attempt to fool merchants 
by buying goods outside of the price of their true quality. This is where 
the various Social Skills come into play. 
 
CHANGES IN QUALITY 
When a Weapon or Armor takes enough Break Point Damage, the 
Quality of the Weapon can change. 
 
EXCHANGING CURRENCY 
When traveling locations, there is a currency exchange that may need 
done in order for a player to still use their currency. When the 
Characters go somewhere that uses a different currency, the GM may 
roll a 1D100, where the outcome lists the difference between the 
currencies at the current time. For example, the current currency may 
be weaker, thus having more buying power for the players. 
 
1D100 OUTCOME 
1-4 20% loss in currency transaction. 
5-10 15% loss in currency transaction. 
11-20 10% loss in currency transaction. 
21-39 5% loss in currency transaction. 
40-70 Currencies are equal in current value. 
71-80 5% gain in currency transaction. 
81-90 10% gain in currency transaction. 
91-94 15% gain in currency transaction. 
95-100 20% gain in currency transaction. 
 
FINDING SUPPLIERS FOR TRADING, BROKING, ETC 
The larger the world, the easier it is to find trading and supply lines to 
meet your needs. The larger the city or more advanced a planet’s 
economic infrastructure, the much easier it becomes to find what 
you’re looking for. It also becomes much easier for law enforcement 
to begin suspecting illegal trading and brokering. 
 To find a supplier or broker, use the Availability based on 
the type of location the Players are currently in. The time that it takes 
to find a supplier is based on the type of goods or needs. 
 If other Characters are assisting in the Research, reduce the 
hours by 1 for each Character assisting, to a minimum of 1 hour. 
 
SUPPLIER OUTCOME 
Goods 1D5 hours, reduced by 1 for each Degree of Success 
Services 1D10 hours, reduced by 2 for each Degree of Success 
Trading 1D5 hours, reduced by 1 for each 2 Degrees of Success 
Broker 1D10 hours, reduced by 1 for each 2 Degrees of 
Success 
Black 
Market 
3D10 hours, reduced by 2 hours for each Degree of 
Success. 
 
BLACK MARKET DEALS 
Black Markets are illegal underground trading circuits that allow 
people to get their hands on illicit goods or use backdoor means to 
gain access to goods at a cheaper rate by avoiding taxes, tariffs, or 
government fees. 
 The Black Market can be accessed using the Black Market 
Street Smarts Education. A Successful Black Market Test using a 
chosen Skill will give the Players access to the Black Market. This Test 
can be given Bonuses or Penalties  based on the population and  
economics of the location. 
 Black Market prices will increase based on rarity and how 
dangerous the item is. Weapons will always be at a 2x multiplier in 
price, while Covenant goods will be at an extra 3x multiplier in price.  
Forerunner goods will be at a 10x multiplier in price. That is, if you can 
even get the trust of your sellers. 
 Rarity should also play a part in the price. The GM may use 
the Availability Chart. Roll a D100 for the location the Characters are 
currently in. For every 10 over the listed number, the price gains a 
+1.5 to the multiplier of the item. 
 The GM may treat any failed rolls with 2 or more Degrees 
of Failure as a way to alert law enforcement or to gain the ire of those 
who run the black market. 
 
BUYING IN BULK 
Buying in bulk will reduce the total price per item based on the 
amount being purchased and based on the total price. The cost of an 
item cannot drop below 1 cR per item, and the total reduction of price 
is at a minimum of -1 cR. 
 Anything that would normally be purchased in bulk cannot 
gain the benefits of buying in bulk of 10-100. This includes things like 
ammunition, glowsticks, cigarettes, or anything else that is commonly 
purchased in these amounts. 
 
AMOUNT OUTCOME 
50+ The price is reduced by 5%. Some items exempt. 
200+ The price is reduced by 10%. 25% of the money 
must be paid upfront. 
2,000+ The price is reduced by 2 0%. 50% of the money 
must be paid upfront. 
10,000+ The price is reduced by 30%. 60% of the money 
must be paid upfront. 
100,000+ The price is reduced by 50%. 80% of the money 
must be paid upfront.

===== PAGE 5 =====
5 
 
AVAILABILITY 
ITEM OUTPOST TOWN CITY METROPOLISE ECONOMIC ZONE 
General Goods 85% 90% 100% 100% 100% 
Services 85% 95% 100% 100% 100% 
Travel and Work Equipment 50% 75% 100% 100% 100% 
Tools 90% 95% 100% 100% 100% 
Local Weapons 80% 85% 95% 100% 100% 
Uncommon Weapons 50% 65% 80% 95% 100% 
Covenant Equipment 1% 2% 5% 10% 25% 
Forerunner Equipment 1% 1% 1% 1% 2% 
Military Infantry Equipment 10% 40% 60% 80% 100% 
Heavy Military Equipment 1% 2% 30% 50% 80% 
Black Market Availability -20 Penalty -10 Penalty -- +10 Bonus +30 Bonus 
Building Construction 50% 65% 100% 100% 100% 
Commercial Real Estate 10% 50% 100% 100% 100% 
Space Port 15% 35% 100% 100% 100% 
Food Production Line 1% 25% 100% 100% 100% 
Standard Production Line 1% 15% 100% 100% 100% 
Large Assembly Line 1% 2% 5% 75% 100% 
Shipyard Assembly Line 5% 1% 5% 25% 25% 
Advanced Production Line 1% 1% 5% 10% 10% 
Warehouse 1% 1% 100% 100% 100% 
Office Building 1% 5% 100% 100% 100% 
Factory 5% 10% 100% 100% 100% 
Shipyard 10% 5% 15% 25% 50% 
Dry Dock 25% 15% 85% 100% 100% 
Storefront 50% 100% 100% 100% 100% 
Space Station 1% 1% 10% 85% 100% 
Trade Outpost 85% 15% 75% 95% 100% 
Research Facility 1% 1% 5% 25% 50% 
Bank 25% 85% 100% 100% 100% 
Mining Facility 20% 5% 25% 25% 25% 
Mechanic Garage 50% 75% 100% 100% 100% 
Hospital 20% 60% 100% 100% 100% 
Power Plant 15% 35% 80% 100% 100% 
Transportation Hub 25% 15% 100% 100% 100% 
Space Elevator 5% 5% 85% 95% 100% 
 
QUALITY 
QUALITY CHANCE EXPLANATION 
Cheap 1-10 
The product is cheaply made. Breakpoints of Cheap products are reduced by 50%. 
Weapons: Reduces Base Damage by 5 and Pierce by 2. If the weapon does not have Pierce, it loses 6 Base Damage, 
instead. 
Armor: Reduces Armor Rating on all Locations by 5. 
Vehicles: Reduces Acceleration, Braking, and Top Speed by 50%. 
Poor 11-20 
The product is cheaply made. Breakpoints of Poor products are reduced by 25%. 
Weapons: Reduces Base Damage by 1 and Pierce by 2. If the weapon does not have Pierce, it loses 2 Base Damage, 
instead. 
Armor: Reduces Armor Rating on all Locations by 3.  
Vehicles: Reduces Acceleration, Braking, and Top Speed by 25%. 
Standard 21-97 The weapon or armor is unchanged from the stats. 
Premium 98-99 
The product is high quality. Breakpoints of Premium products are increased 50%. 
Weapons: Increases Base Damage by 1 and Pierce by 2. If the weapon does not have Pierce, it gains 2 Base Damage, 
instead. 
Armor: Increases Armor Rating on all Locations by 2.  
Vehicles: Increases Acceleration, Braking, and Top Speed by 10%. 
World-
Class 100 
The product is near perfection. Breakpoints of World-Class products are doubled. 
Weapons: Increases Base Damage by 3 and Pierce by 2. If the weapon does not have Pierce, it gains 4 Base Damage, 
instead. 
Armor: Increases Armor Rating on all Locations by 4. 
Vehicles: Increases Acceleration, Braking, and Top Speed by 20%.

===== PAGE 6 =====
6 
 
RESEARCH AND MANUFACTURING 
 
RESOURCES 
Resources are needed for manufacturing or can be used for trading. 
Resources are the materials needed for manufacturing goods and 
creating prototypes. 
Resources will always be cheaper than the final product, 
and the resource needed is equal to 40% of the total price of the item 
being made. Resources are generally purchased in bulk but can still 
be purchased in small enough amounts for the need of creating single 
items or prototypes. 
 
FABRICATION AND MANUFACTURING 
Manufacturing goods is both an expensive and lucrative business 
option, allowing Characters to research, gather materials, and begin 
mass-production of desired items for the use of selling, trading, and 
use on the battlefield. 
 Fabrication and Manufacturing requires owning 
manufacturing plants and warehouses or renting out the use of these 
services from others.  The Players and GM must first discuss and 
decide the approach the Players will be taking. Are they going to own 
the means of their own production, or will they be paying for the 
means of production. 
 To begin this process, the Characters must first have a 
Prototype created, alongside a detailed process for the creation of the 
object that can be followed for mass-production. 
 
RESEARCHING FOR MANUFACTURING 
Using a fitting Education or hiring someone with said Education, the 
Character must roll an Education Test. The amount of time needed to 
complete the research to begin prototyping is listed in the table 
below. For each Character assisting in the Research, the Test is 
reduced by 1D10, to a minimum of half of the dice originally listed. 
 
COMPLEXITY OUTCOME 
Simple 
Commonly mass -produced goods. Examples 
include culinary, brewing, tailoring goods, etc. 
1D10+10 days, reduced by 1 day for each Degree of 
Success. 
Basic 
Commonly mass -produced goods that have some 
complicated parts, materials, or manufacturing 
needs. Examples include standard firearms, normal 
body armors, agriculture needs, etc. 6D10+15 days, 
reduced by 1 day for each Degree of Success. 
Advanced 
Rarely produced goods or mass -produced goods 
that have many complicated needs to create. 
Examples include non-standard firearms, 
aeronautics, military, etc. 8D10+25 days, reduced 
by 1 day for each Degree of Success. 
Cutting-Edge 
New, incredibly rare goods, or goods that are 
almost never produced in large numbers. Examples 
include Slipspace, alien technology, military 
prototypes, etc. 10D10+30 days, reduced by 1 day 
for each Degree of Success. 
 
PROTOTYPING 
Prototyping is when a Character has early versions of the goods 
developed for testing. Prototyping can be an expensive process that 
can be eased by reverse-engineering and Infrastructure. 
 Prototypes cost money to create. Each day, creating 
Prototypes of a product costs cR equal to the final cost of the product, 
not counting Premium or World -Class products. This means that the 
more the Character fails on a prototype, the more expensive it 
becomes. The goal is to get the Prototype Characteristic of the item 
being made to a set value based on its complexity.  For example, a 
Basic complexity prototype needs a Prototype Characteristic of 80 to 
be considered a complete success. 
 To begin prototyping, the Character will make an Education 
Test fitting to the product being created , or an Intellect Test without 
the Education. Simple Prototypes gain a +20 Bonus, Basic Prototypes 
gain no Bonus or Penalty, Advanced Prototypes gain a -10 Penalty, 
and Cutting-Edge Prototypes gain a -20 Penalty. 
 For every Degree of Failure, the Character will have wasted 
a day and gain no progress. For every Degree of Success, the 
Character gains +10 to the Prototype Characteristic and add 1 day to 
the amount of time that has passed. 
 Depending on the complexity of the product being created, 
the Prototype Characteristic must equal a set number to be 
considered finished and without any faults. This means your product 
will be ready for manufacturing. 
 
IMPROVING QUALITY 
There are two types of Qualities that can be obtained only by pushing 
a Prototype far beyond its original needed Characteristic. These are 
Premium and World-Class. Certain items also gain extra benefits, such 
as firearms, armor, vehicles, and more. 
Premium Quality increases the price a product can be sold 
by, by double. 
World-Class Quality increases the price a product can be 
sold by, by quadruple. 
 
COMPLEXITY STANDARD PREMIUM WORLD-CLASS 
Simple 200 300 400 
Basic 300 450 600 
Advanced 400 600 800 
Cutting-Edge 600 900 1,200 
 
CHEAP AND POOR QUALITY 
Sometimes there is need for lower quality goods, such as cheaper, 
less premium goods that lower -income families can afford. Some 
businesses may also look for lower -quality tools and goods to 
purchase to make their own products with. The players can 
purposefully reduce the Quality of a product to Cheap or Poor. 
 Depending on the product and reasoning of the Players, the 
GM can decide not to punish the players for making lower quality 
goods. As an example, cheap vehicles can be created for lower prices 
to increase the possibility of selling the vehicle as an affordable 
option. 
 
LARGE-SCALE PROTOTYPING 
The larger the scale that a prototype is, the longer it will take and the 
possibility of more needs to finish the project. For example, vehicles 
are larger than something like creating a firearm. These will take more 
time. 
 For every Size Point of a vehicle prototype, it will take 1 
extra day per each Test made and the Character will need access to a 
garage or enough room outside to perform the work needed. 
 For things like starships, every Test will instead take 1 week 
to be made and the Character will need access to a ship dock and the 
tools it takes to manufacture something of this scale. 
 
REVERSE ENGINEERING FOR PROTOTYPING 
Reverse Engineering a similar product will give benefits to the 
Prototype Characteristic. Each day when the Character is rolling the 
Test to attempt to increase their Prototype Characteristic, the 
Character must also roll a Technology Test. This will be the Character 
attempting to understand and make use of the existing product or 
item as they work on their own prototype.

===== PAGE 7 =====
7 
 
 For every Degree of Success on the Technology Test, the 
Character will gain an extra +5 Bonus to the Prototype Characteristic, 
to a maximum of +20. 
 If the Character gains half or more of their total Prototyping 
Characteristic on the product from reverse engineering, the GM can 
allow for eventual issues where the Character can get in trouble for 
copying a product, infringing on copyrights, etc. 
 When attempting to reverse -engineer alien technology, 
make sure the Character is rolling on the proper Technology  
Characteristic needed. The GM should also make sure to introduce 
Penalties based on the possible complexity of the item being reverse 
engineered. 
 
AI ASSISTED PROTOTYPING 
When an Smart AI or Dumb AI Character is assisting in the Prototype 
phase of a product, they are able to make double the Prototype Tests 
per day, and every Degree of Failure will take half of a day, instead of 
a full day. 
 
UNFINISHED PROTOTYPES 
If a Prototype is unfinished, but the Character wants to rush it into 
production, the Character must roll on the chart below. The Character 
must roll a D100 and add the total amount of missing Prototype 
Characteristic needed to finish the Prototype. For ex ample, if the 
Prototype was at 80, then the Character will roll D100+20.  It is up to 
the GM to decide what type of possible issue the prototype will have. 
 
1D100 OUTCOME 
1-20 The product is reliable and works fine. There is no 
seeming issues with the prototype. 
21-50 
The product is unreliable after prolonged use. This 
could mean having reloading or jamming issues on 
firearms, issues with molding on food, etc. 
51-60 The product is heavier than the original intended goal 
by 25%. 
61-80 
The product is disruptive after prolonged use. This 
could mean rounds exploding in the chamber of a gun, 
parts breaking after a month of use, and electronics or 
vehicles being prone to part failure. 
81-100 
The product is difficult and expensive to repair, 
doubling the price and time needed to repair. There is 
also a chance that smaller shops will refuse to work or 
refurbish the product. 
101-120 
The product is more expensive than originally 
intended, increasing the price per product by 25%, to 
a minimum of 1 cR. 
121-130 
The product is disruptive when trying to use it, having 
a high chance of issues of use, whether it be longer 
reloads on a gun, being difficult to use or understand, 
or be unattractive as a competitor to other products. 
131-140 The Product is considered Poor Quality on the Quality 
Chart. 
141-150 The Product is considered Cheap Quality on the 
Quality Chart. 
151+ 
The product has more than one issue. Reroll on this 
chart two times. If this has been rolled on more than 
once, continue to reroll. 
 
SELLING PRODUCTS 
Selling a product is not a guaranteed process. Sometimes product will 
take a long time to sell, other times a product may never find a place 
in the market. A strong product with good research will go a long ways 
to make sure that a product is successful. 
 When a product is ready to hit the market, the Player will 
make a Charisma, Leadership, or Intellect Test. This can be improved 
by various fitting Educations depending on the market, product, or 
locations the product will be sold. 
 The GM can then give a +10 Bonus to the Test if the 
Characters involved made proper research and followed necessary 
procedures. The Character gain also gain a +10 Bonus for each 
partnership that was gained or used to make the product, such as 
military bodies, investors, banks, merchants, and other corporations. 
 Products that have a common use will also gain another +10 
Bonus to this Test, and Products that don’t have competition and 
have a market can gain an extra +10 Bonus to this Test. Some products 
may also have almost no chance of failure and the GM should t ake 
this into account. 
 Products that were built from unfinished prototypes will 
give a -10 Penalty to the Test for every issue that was rolled. Issues 
that can be seen right away will give an extra -10 Penalty to the Test. 
 The Characters can also decide to sell their product at a 
higher cost or  selling a lower -quality item for the same price as a 
higher-quality competitor. If the product cost is considered too much 
higher, especially higher compared to rivaling products, the GM can 
give extra Penalties to this Test, anywhere from -10 all the way to -40, 
depending on the severity of the price difference. 
 
SUCCESS OR FAILURE OF THE SELLING TEST 
If this Test fails, the product fails to sell 20% of the total product. For 
each Degree of Failure, the percentage of unsold products is 
increased by +10%, to a maximum of 100%. 
 If this Test succeeds, the product succeeds in selling, and 
each Degree of Success will help increase the time in which the sales 
are made. Each Degree of Success will increase the amount sold by 
10%, to a minimum of +1 sold per day. 
 
RATE OF SALES 
The rate at which goods will sell is based on the success of the 
product. Starting at 1 sold per day, each Degree of Success on the 
previous Selling Test will increase this by +10. This number is then 
increased by the Infrastructure Characteristic that the Characters may 
have.  
The speed of sales can be increased by taking out adspace. 
Adspace is a Characteristic that will increase how many are sold per 
day, which will begin at 0 and increase by 5 for every 100 cR you 
spend. The Character then makes an Intellect, Charisma, or 
Leadership Test. For every Degree of Failure, adspace is reduced by 1. 
For every Degree of Success, adspace is increased by 1 . The GM may 
give bonuses to this Test if the Players have a good plan for adspace 
and properly roleplay it, the better the idea, the higher the Bonus 
should be. The same can also go for penalizing bad ideas. 
 
SELLING IN BULK 
Characters can gain business partners who can agree to buy certain 
amounts of products. This could be a partner that agrees to buy a set 
amount, a percentage of total production, or even an agreement to 
buy all that is produced.  
 Selling in bulk to a company like this will reduce that 
amount needed to sell through rate of sales. If the company agreed 
to buy all that was produced, then the Rate of Sales could be ignored 
entirely. Examples of this could include the UNSC purchasing all of the 
firearms you are producing, or a food chain purchasing 50% of all food 
items you are producing. 
 These could come with agreements made between the two 
parties. A company agreeing to purchase all goods could come with 
the downside that they would purchase them at a lower amount. But 
the upside comes from the fact that you know all of these products 
will be sold regardless.

===== PAGE 8 =====
8 
 
PRODUCTION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 
 
PRODUCTION LINES:  TIME AND COST 
Production Times will be based off of the complexity of the items 
being created per production line, as well as the Plant type needed to 
perform the manufacturing process. 
 The cost will be based on the item and the production 
needed. This does not cover the Resources needed but does cover the 
cost of  energy, employees, and miscellaneous supplies needed for  
running the line. 
 
LINE TIME AND COST 
Food Line 
Time: 1 hour per 10 items. 
Bulk: Costs 10% of the item to manufacture. 
Single: Costs 50% of the item to manufacture. 
Cost to own: 500 cR per line. 
Space: Takes up 1,000 Square Meters for full line. 
Standard 
Production 
Line 
Time: 1 hour per 5 items. 
Bulk: Costs 20% of the item to manufacture. 
Single: Costs 75% of the item to manufacture. 
Cost to own: 650 cR per line. 
Space: Takes up 1,500 Square Meters for full line. 
Large 
Assembly 
Line 
Time: 4* hours per item. 
Bulk: Costs 30% of the item to manufacture. 
Single: Costs the price of the item to manufacture. 
Cost to own: 780 cR per line. 
Space: Takes up 10,000 Square Meters for full line. 
Shipyard 
Assembly 
Line 
Time: 1* week per item. 
Bulk: Costs 40% of the item to manufacture. 
Single: Costs the price of the item to manufacture. 
Cost to own: 15,000 cR per line. 
Space: Takes up 250,000 Square Meters for full line. 
Advanced 
Production 
Line 
Time: 4 hours per item. 
Bulk: Costs 40% of the item to manufacture. 
Single: Costs 2x the price of the item to 
manufacture. 
Cost to own: 2,000 cR per line. 
Space: Takes up 3,000 Square Meters for full line. 
 
FOOD LINE 
Food Lines are your sanitized production lines designed for handling 
food. These are assembly lines with multiple stations, each designed 
to handle different foods in different ways. Preparation and cleaning 
are an important part of this type of production line.  These types of 
production lines are also used for things like pesticides, herbicides, 
and other agricultural products, as well. 
 
STANDARD PRODUCTION LINE 
Standard Production Lines cover a vast swath of production line use. 
These will cover your simple and basic goods. Examples include 
household goods, kitchen appliances, hygiene and cleaning solutions, 
and more. Some more industrialized production lines can also handle 
simple firearm designs such as pistols and rifles. 
 
LARGE ASSEMBLY LINE 
Large Assembly Lines are designed for various large -scale products, 
whether it be vehicles, modular building pieces, or anything else that 
takes a considerable amount of size to produce. Large Assembly Lines 
can handle many large-scale projects as long as they aren’t as large as 
something like a UNSC Frigate, or anything else that could house 
hundreds of passengers. 
 Large Assembly Lines will take an additional hour per every 
5 Size Points of a Vehicle. This can be used to figure additional large, 
non-vehicle items to manufacture of similar size. 
 
SHIP YARD ASSEMBLY LINE 
Ship Yard Assembly Lines are Assembly Lines designed for use in a 
Ship Yard  or Drydock. These are production facilities spanning 
kilometers in size, designed to build some of the largest marvels 
Humanity has ever designed. 
 The time it takes to assemble is increased by 1 for every 2 
Ship Size the Ship is, which can be found in the Mythic Space 
expansion handbook. 
 
ADVANCED PRODUCTION LINE 
Advanced Production Lines are engineering marvels. These high -
precision production lines allow for some of the most advanced and 
cutting-edge products to be produced. These are used for computer 
engineering, laser integrations, micro-assembly, and production lines 
used for “Advanced” and “Cutting-Edge” products. 
 
RENTING PRODUCTION LINES 
A Production Line can be rented for 10% of the listed Cost to Own 
price for 1 month.  When attempting to rent a Production Line, the 
Character must make a  +20 Investigation Test. If Successful, the 
Character will find an available Production Line to rent out. 
 If Failed, the Character will have to wait 1 month for every 
Degree of Failure before they can rend the Production Line. 
 
FABRICATION LINES 
Fabrication Lines are highly complex and compact manufacturing 
lines that are designed to be on UNSC ships and space stations.  
Fabrication Lines will have the same Bulk and Single Cost for 
production but  will always cost double the Cost To Own price. 
Fabrication Lines will also double the output time of their production 
line counterpart. 
 A Fabrication Line is 10 times smaller than a Manufacturing 
Line of its size, allowing much more to be fit into a single location. This 
allows ships like Phoenix-Class Colony Ships to have massive 
production lines to manufacture vehicles, weapons, and armor while 
still staying mobile. 
 
HAND-MADE PRODUCTION 
Character Production is where a Character is performing the product 
of an item, themselves. This is for when a Character is attempting to 
make products without the use of Production Lines, Manufacturing 
facilities, or Fabrication Lines. 
 If a Character has a finished Prototype, they will be able to 
create an item at a lower  speed listed in the Time and Cost Table 
under “Production Lines: Time and Cost.” Food items are at 1/3rd the 
listed time, Production Line items are at 1/5 th the time, Large 
Assembly are at 1/10th of the time, Shipyard items are at 1/1000th the 
time, and Advanced items are at 1/100th of the time. 
 When making items by hand like this, the Character will be 
free from the cost of manufacturing and will only need to cover the 
Resource costs. 
 
INFRASTRUCTURE 
Infrastructure is the rate at which the Characters have built up 
resources that will assist them in getting what they need, whether it 
be from trading, deals, purchases, or manufacturing. The more work, 
buildings, contacts, employees, and technology the Ch aracters have 
established, the higher their Infrastructure Characteristic will 
become. 
 For every 10 in Infrastructure, the Characters gain a +5 
Bonus to Prototyping, finding Traders, Sellers, and Brokers, and 
buying in bulk is reduced by a further +1%. Infrastructure cannot rise 
above 100 and buying in bulk is capped to a total of +10%.

===== PAGE 9 =====
9 
 
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 
For the UNSC, construction of buildings is designed to be fast, 
standardized, and modular. Prefabricated Construction is common in 
the world of Halo, where standardized components are assembled 
and disassembled easily. This allowed for rapid deployment on newly 
established colonies or on war-torn planets. 
 Construction of a Building will take 1 day for every 750 
Square Meters. If a Character wants the building to be less uniform 
and standardized, they can have an architect design a building for 
them. Non-standardized buildings will instead take 1 day for ev ery 
450 Square Meters. 
 If a building is being purchased in an area that needs to first 
be cleared out, such as rubble, trees, or on very uneven land, it will 
take 14 days to finalize the land for construction. 
 
BUILDING DEMOLITION 
When a Building is going to be demolished, the Character will first 
need approval from the local Government. This takes 1D5 days, which 
can be lowered by 1 for every Degree of Success on a Charisma Test. 
Once Demolition begins, it will take 1 day for every 2,000 Square 
Meters to demolish. It then takes 1 day for every 1,000 Square Meters 
to clean up the demolished rubble. 
 The Character can then sell the demolished building 
material for 1/10th of the original price of the purchased building. 
 
SELLING A BUILDING 
When selling a building, the Character has two options. To sell it on 
their own, or to hire a Commercial Real Estate to sell it for them.  
When selling the building on their own, the Character must 
make an Investigation Test. Starting at 30 days, every Degree of 
Success will reduce it by 3 days, to a minimum of 1. This will be how 
long it takes to find a buyer. The Character must then begin 
Negotiation Tests to figure pricing. Most of the time, a buyer will 
attempt to purchase the building at 50% of its original cost. For every 
Degree of Success on a Negotiation Test, the Character will increase 
the amount the building will sell by +10%, to a maximum of 80%. 
When selling using a Commercial Real Estate (CRE), the 
Character will have to do no work and the building will be sold in 1 
week. The Character will receive 60% of the building’s original price. 
 
PURCHASING BUILDINGS 
Buildings can be purchased based on type and size. The larger the 
building or the larger the needs, the more expensive each building will 
become. Once purchased, these buildings are owned. If the GM wants 
to be especially mean, he can have a yearly 5% property tax  per 
building owned. 
 
BUILDING COST AND INFRASTRUCTURE 
Warehouse 
Cost: 500 cR per 3,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +2 Infrastructure 
Owned: +5 Infrastructure 
Office Building 
Cost: 100 cR per 1,000 Square Meters, 15 
Square Meters per employee 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +15 Infrastructure 
Factory 
Cost: 1,000 cR per 3,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +15 Infrastructure 
Shipyard 
Cost: 5,000 cR per 50,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +15 Infrastructure 
Dry Dock 
Cost: 3,500 cR per 50,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +15 Infrastructure 
BUILDING COST AND INFRASTRUCTURE 
Storefront 
Cost: 100 cR per 1,200 Square Meters 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +10 Infrastructure 
Space Station 
Cost: 15,000 cR per 50,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +15 Infrastructure 
Trade Outpost 
Cost: 100 cR per 1,000 Square Meters 
Allied: -- Infrastructure 
Owned: +5 Infrastructure 
Research 
Facility 
Cost: 2,500 cR per 20,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +10 Infrastructure 
Owned: +20 Infrastructure 
Black Market 
Cost: 1,000 cR per 1,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +15 Infrastructure 
Bank 
Cost: 1,500 cR per 1,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +10 Infrastructure 
Owned: +20 Infrastructure 
Mining Facility 
Cost: 4,000 cR per 1,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +20 Infrastructure 
Medical 
Facility 
Cost: 2,750 cR per 20,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +10 Infrastructure 
Owned: +20 Infrastructure 
Transportation 
Hub 
Cost: 1,500 cR per 25,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +10 Infrastructure 
Owned: +20 Infrastructure 
Mechanic 
Garage 
Cost: 1,500 cR per 1,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +10 Infrastructure 
Owned: +20 Infrastructure 
Space Elevator 
Cost: 100,000 cR per Elevator 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +35 Infrastructure 
Entertainment 
Building 
Cost: 700 cR per 3,000 Square Meters of factory 
Allied: -- Infrastructure 
Owned: +5 Infrastructure 
Casino 
Cost: 5,000 cR per 3,000 Square Meters 
Allied: -- Infrastructure 
Owned: +5 Infrastructure 
Education 
Facility 
Cost: 700 cR per 3,000 Square Meters 
Allied: -- Infrastructure 
Owned: +10 Infrastructure 
Apartment 
Complexes 
Cost: 200 cR per 800 Square Meters, 80 Square 
Meters per Apartment in the complex 
Allied: -- Infrastructure 
Owned: +15 Infrastructure 
Farmland 
Cost: 300 cR per 5,000 Square Meters 
Allied: +5 Infrastructure 
Owned: +10 Infrastructure 
Housing 
Cost: 200 cR per 200 Square Meters 
Allied: -- Infrastructure 
Owned: +5 Infrastructure

===== PAGE 10 =====
10 
 
SPENDING INFRASTRUCTURE 
Infrastructure can be spent to increase aspects of locations, such as 
growing locations or increasing their Availability, reducing the costs 
of manufacturing goods, and more. Spent Infrastructure cannot be 
regained unless the chosen benefit was removed. The GM may allow 
for multiple of each Infrastructure option to be spent at a time. 
 
OPTION COST 
Availability 
Increase 
Increases the availability of a type of item on the 
Availability Table by 5% per each Location.  
This costs 25 Infrastructure. 
Manufacturing 
Cost 
Reduction 
The cost of manufacturing items in bulk is 
reduced by 10%. This cannot be gained on items 
that are not being produced in bulk. 
This costs 30 Infrastructure. 
Prototype 
Research 
The amount of Prototype Characteristic gained 
per day is increased by 5.  
This costs 20 Infrastructure. 
Sales 
The Test made to sell products and the speed of 
selling the product is given a +20 Bonus. 
This costs 20 Infrastructure. 
Routes 
Gain trade routes to a location of choice that 
didn’t exist. This will remove Tolls. 
This costs 15 Infrastructure. 
Tariff 
Reduction 
Reduces the amount that you are charged from 
Tariffs by up to 5%. 
This costs 20 Infrastructure. 
Bulk Rates Reduces the Bulk upfront cost by 10%. 
This costs 15 Infrastructure. 
 
WAREHOUSES 
A Warehouse is a large building specifically designed for storing 
goods. A building’s usable Storage Space will be 2/3rds of its total 
Square Meters. The rest will be for employees, offices, and machinery 
storage needed to run a warehouse. 
 Warehouses will have efficient storage and organization, 
loading and unloading docks that can be accessed by truck and ship, 
and capable of holding both finished product and resources. 
 
OFFICE BUILDINGS 
An office building is a large building designed to be filled with 
individual workers using cubicles, office rooms, and meeting rooms. 
They are designed using shared areas and administrative functions 
that allow these workers to work efficiently. These are needed for 
when a Company has large amounts of Infrastructure, which can only 
be sustained by having workers that can keep things moving 
smoothly. 
 
FACTORIES 
Factories are your Production, Manufacturing, and Fabrication 
buildings. These are buildings that turn Resources into Products using 
production lines. Factories are what make large -scale production 
possible. However, Factories cannot hold large ships, such as naval 
and space ships. 
 
SHIP YARDS 
Shipyards are not your average brick-and-mortar buildings. These are 
massive sprawling complexes of enclosed and open -space facilities, 
each tasked with constructing specific units of these ships. Ship yards 
are comprised of giant construction docks, specialized workshops, 
material storage and logistic buildings, and Zero -G construction 
facilities. There is nothing simple about creating a ship that can 
survive the dangers of space. 
 
 
DRY DOCKS 
A Dry Dock can be one of two types of facilities: A storage facility for 
space ships, or a storage facility for naval ships.  
Dry Docks house many features  other than just docking 
stations, such as Orbital Repair Facilities to keep up with repairs on 
ships, Docking Bays to handle pressurized docking bays, and 
Specialized Equipment for towing, repairing, and diagnosing ships of 
all shapes and sizes. 
 
STOREFRONTS 
A Storefront is a smaller building used to sell goods and services. 
These can be designed and fit into many types of locations, such as 
Shopfronts on Ships and Stations, Showrooms for showcasing 
products, Interactive displays, and for limited physical storage. This is 
where your average consumer will travel to purchase goods. 
 Owned storefronts can increase the base daily sold goods 
by 25%, each. 
 
SPACE STATIONS 
A Space Station is a vast self -contained orbiting system designed for 
one of many purposes. Orbital Homes are space stations provided as 
a place of living. Scientific Outposts are stations reserved for scientific 
research facilities. These offer ways to safely test in vacuums, zero 
gravity, or away from civilians that could be harmful.  Trading Hubs 
offer commercial centers for traveling ships. Military systems are 
complex systems that offer defensive and offensive measures, as well 
as last-line defense against invading forces. 
 
TRADE OUTPOSTS 
Trade Outposts are smaller, more rudimentary operations focused on 
commerce in outer regions of space or in far -off locations.  These 
could include Frontier Commerce Hubs that are outposts on 
spaceports or stations, or trading outposts that are part of a larger 
trading outpost location in a settlement or a far-off bustling city of 
another local Government. 
 Trade Outposts can increase the base daily goods sold by 
10%, each. 
 
RESEARCH FACILITY 
Research Facilities are large complexes designed to improve the study 
and understanding of product creation. Research Facilities can house 
specialized labs and implement data facilities for speeding up the 
capabilities of Prototype Research. Only one Research Facility can 
work on a Prototype at a time, and will give a +20 to each Prototype 
Test. 
 
BLACK MARKET BUILDING 
Owning a piece of land dedicated to black market dealings is both 
risky and incredibly profitable. These allow Characters the ability to 
sell illegal goods  under the guise of a different company or product 
being sold. 
 
BANK 
Banks allow for the Character to lend and store currencies. These are 
buildings that demand incredibly tight security and offer a few 
functions for Characters that they didn’t have access to previously. 
 Banks allow the Character to loan out cR, meaning that now 
the Character can begin making passive currency over time. The 
Character would also need to make sure they are paid back. It also 
allows for the storage of currency and the ability to invest. When a 
Bank is purchased, the Character will make a Charisma Test. For every 
Degree of Success, the Character will gain 5% of their total owned cR 
at the end of a fiscal year, to a maximum of +15%.

===== PAGE 11 =====
11 
 
MINING FACILITY 
Mining facilities allow for the mining, processing, and refinery of 
Resources, allowing for Characters to slowly gain Resources without 
the need of constantly purchasing them. 
 For every 1,000 Square Meters  of Mining Facility, the 
Facility will generate 25 cR worth of Resources per day  after figuring 
costs of employment and refinery costs. 
 
MEDICAL FACILITY 
Medical Facilities are doctors’ offices, hospitals, and other medically-
specialized facilities. These can be for emergency care, long -term 
care, medical testing and storage, quarantine preparation, and 
telemedicine. These facilities can also be used to heal Characters’ 
Wounds, Fatigue, Special Damage, and other medical effects by 
offering Extended Medical Tests with guaranteed Success on Tests. 
 
TRANSPORTATION HUB 
A Transportation Hub is a planet -side port that offers transportation 
options for community, military, and industrial needs. These are 
interstellar travel ports, docking facilities, ticketing and customs, 
cargo processing, passenger amenities, and information hubs. Thes 
can be used for both private and public needs. 
 
MECHANIC GARAGE 
A Mechanic Garage is a service that offers vehicle repair, service, and 
checkups. These can be used for parts and upgrading, or just general 
repair needs. Mechanic Garages can be used to repair Breakpoints of 
Vehicles. 
 
SPACE ELEVATOR 
Space Elevators are large, expensive elevators that are anchored to 
the ground, which allows for goods and personnel to be ferried into 
an anchored space station. These can be used to cheaply transport 
billions in kilograms at a time, allowing for a very powerful, very 
reliable way of moving goods off-planet without wasting time or fuel. 
 
ENTERTAINMENT BUILDING 
Entertainment Buildings are buildings that have a source of 
entertainment of the Character’s choosing. These could be 
convention halls, movie theaters, classical theater, etc. 
 Entertainment Buildings will generate 1D100 cR per month 
per 3,000 Square Feet. 
 
CASINO 
A Casino is an entertainment establishment designed to be addictive. 
These are large buildings with minimal daylight and remarkable 
designs and entertainment.  Casinos can be a good generation of 
funds each month.  
(X) is the multiplier that decides how much profits the 
Characters receive. For every 3,000 Square Meters the Casino has, (X) 
is increased by +2.  However, if the Casino is in an Outpost, the 
multiplier is removed  and the Test gains +40 . If in a Town, the 
multiplier is reduced by -3 and the Test is increased by +20. If next to 
another Casino, the multiplier is reduced to -2, and the Test is 
increased by +10.  
 
D100 CASINO RESULTS PER MONTH 
1-80 10D10*(X) cR earned for the month. 
81-94 No extra money earned during the month. 
95-100 Loss of 3D10*3 cR for the month. 
 
APARTMENT COMPLEX 
An Apartment Complex allows for the Character to create sustainable 
housing. The rent begins at a default 1 cR per day and is paid at the 
end of each mon th. The cR gained will be at the end of the month, 
with each tenants’ rent is combined to be your monthly profit.  Each 
Apartment is designed to house up to 4 people without issue. 
 For every 1 cR the daily rent is raised, there is a 10% chance 
for each Tenant to move out. 
 
HOUSING 
Housing allows for the Character to create sustainable housing for 
single families. These are higher luxury housing that can be sold or 
rented out. A house can be sold at double the Cost it was built for and 
any gained Infrastructure will be lost. It will take 2 m onths to sell the 
House. The rent of a house will be 2 cR per day and is paid at the end 
of each month. Each house is designed for up to a family of 6. 
 For every 1 cR the daily rent is raised, there is a 20% chance 
for the Tenant to move out. 
 
FARMLAND 
Farmland allows for Characters to create sustainable food resources. 
Every 5,000 Square Meters of Farmland owned can create enough 
food to feed 100 people before processing and improvements made. 
Processing this food product can double the amount of people each 
5,000 Square Meters can feed. 
 
TAXES, TARIFFS, TOLLS 
At the end of a fiscal year, which can be set by the GM, Characters 
must make sure that their taxes have been paid. The Character should 
make sure to save 5% of their total sales from products and business 
dealings to pay taxes for. Loaning and borrowing money do not count 
for this. 
 Tariffs are a tax that can be imposed by another 
Government on goods and services imported from elsewhere. These 
are used by some locations to influence native products to be 
purchased and to raise revenue. The GM may decide that a location 
the Players are trying to sell a product to has a tariff, which would 
mean that a second tax of 5% would be applied to anything sold 
within that location, as an example. 
 Tolls are areas where passing through checkpoints or into 
locations will cost money. A GM could set up a toll that could cost the 
players when delivering or receiving goods, resources, and products. 
This could be as low as 1 cR per passage or  could be as severe as 
charging for each and every vessel or type of product on the vessel. It 
is up to the GM and how corrupt or untrusting of outside products 
the local Government can be. 
 
SMUGGLING 
Smuggling can allow a Character to surpass Tariffs and Tolls  by 
smuggling goods and people.  To make things simple, the Character 
should make a Camouflage Test, where the Test gains a -10 Penalty 
for every 1,000 kg of equipment being smuggled, and a -5 Penalty for 
every 10 Characters being smuggled. 
 If failed, the law enforcement will be onto the Character. If 
caught, all smuggled Characters will be jailed and fined, while all 
goods being smuggled will be impounded and sold to make up for the 
fines the Character will have gained. The GM may also jail the Player 
Character involved if he wants to be mean.

===== PAGE 12 =====
12 
 
BANKS AND LOANS 
A Character can borrow money from a Bank or gain financers from 
holdings groups, companies, and individuals. To do so, the Player 
must first seek out gaining a Business Loan. Loans are expected to be 
paid back within an agreed timespan with an included extra amount 
that must be paid back called an Interest Rate. The higher the Interest 
Rate, the more money that will need to be paid back. 
There are three types of Business Loans, Small Business 
Loan, Business Loan, and Large Business Loans. 
 
INTEREST RATES 
An Interest Rate is the cost that the Character is charged for 
borrowing money, or the payment received for lending money. 
Interest Rates are displayed as a percentage, which is a percentage of 
the amount borrowed that is then added onto the total. 
 If a Character borrowed 5,000 cR with an Interest Rate of 
10%, the Interest Rate would be 500 cR, and the total amount the 
Character would owe the Bank would be 5,500 cR. 
 
SMALL BUSINESS LOAN 
Small Business Loans are any Loans that are less than 1,000 cR. The 
starting Interest Rate for these Loans are 10%. Small Business Loans, 
on average, need to be paid back within 5 years. 
 For every 100 cR borrowed, the Interest Rate is increased 
by +0.5%, to a maximum of 12%. 
 Interest Rates on Small Business Loans can be decreased by 
1% for every year sooner you agree to pay off the Loan. 
 The Interest Rates can also be reduced by 1% for every 150 
cR the Character owns, to a maximum of 3% reduced this way. 
 
BUSINESS LOAN 
Business Loans are Loans that are more than 1,000 cR, but less than 
50,000 cR. The starting Interest Rate for these Loans are 8%. Business 
Loans, on average, need to be paid back within 7 years. 
 For every 500 cR borrowed, the Interest Rate is increased 
by +0.5%, to a maximum of 10%. 
 Interest Rates on Business Loans can be decreased by 0.5% 
for every year sooner you agree to pay off the Loan. 
The Interest Rates can also be reduced by 1% for every 
1,500 cR the Character owns, to a maximum of 3% reduced this way. 
 
LARGE BUSINESS LOAN 
A Large Business Loan are any Loans that are over 50,000 cR. The 
starting Interest Rate for these Loans are 6%. Large Business Loans, 
on average, need to be paid back within 10 years. 
 For every 1,000 cR borrowed, the interest Rate is increased 
by +0.5%, to a maximum of 10%. 
 Interest Rates on Large Business Loans can be decreased by 
0.5% for every year sooner you agree to pay off the Loan. 
 The Interest Rates can also be reduced by 1% for every 
5,000 cR the Character owns, to a maximum of 3% reduced this way. 
 
FAILING TO PAY LOANS 
When loans go unpaid, the Banks and other financers will have a few 
options based on the amount of the loan that has gone unpaid. 
 The first option is owning a percentage of the product or 
company equal to the unpaid amount of the loan. This means that the 
bank will then take that same percentage of all sales and money the 
company has as long as they hold ownership. 
 The second option is liquidation of owned assets. This 
would be based on seizing product, machinery, buildings, or anything 
else owned by the Character or company that could then be sold to 
recoup the costs of the Loan. 
 The third option is a rare option in which the Bank can agree 
to give more time, however this comes at a cost of raising the Interest 
Rate. For every 10% unpaid, the Interest Rate will be increased by 
+1%, to a maximum of +20%. The GM may then give extra time to pay 
off the loan, generally equaling the time originally agreed on to pay 
off the previous loan.  
 
INSURANCE 
Insurance is a service that offers protection against risks. A Character 
will pay a regular fee known as a Premium in exchange for financial 
protection against specific risks. 
 There are three types of Insurance available: Business, Life, 
and Liability. 
 
INSURANCE COST 
Business 1 cR per month for every 500 cR worth of assets. 
Life 1 cR per month for every 200 cR payout on death. 
Liability 1 cR per month for every 75 cR coverage. 
 
BUSINESS INSURANCE 
In the cutthroat world of business, unexpected events can threaten 
your entire operation. Business insurance acts like a shield, protecting 
your company's financial well -being. Business Insurance covers the 
following: 
Property: Protects your company’s physical assets (buildings, 
equipment, product) from damage due to fire, theft, and natural 
disasters. 
Business Interruption : Provides financial support if your 
business is forced to temporarily stop production due to covered 
events (Fire damage, power outage, natural disasters). 
Employee-Related Incidents: Covers costs associated with 
employee injuries, illnesses, and lawsuits (Workmans compensation). 
Cybersecurity: Protects your company from financial losses 
caused by data breaches, cyberattacks, and cyber extortion. 
 
LIFE INSURANCE 
In the occurrence that a Character were to lose their life, Life 
Insurance will offer a payout of a set amount of money . This offers 
financial security to the loved ones of the Character who passed away, 
but only under certain conditions. Life Insurance will not pay out if the 
Character still has Luck. 
 Life insurance will only cover deaths caused by the 
following: Accidents, illness, old age, natural disasters.  If a death 
occurs within 1 month of gaining Life Insurance, there will be no 
payout and only a refund of the purchased insurance. 
 
LIABILITY INSURANCE 
Liability Insurance offers a safety net that protects the Characters 
from financial ruin in the event of an accident or if the Character was 
found legally responsible for causing harm to others or property. 
 Liability Insurance covers accidents from vehicles, damage 
to public and private property, and medical and judicial bills. 
 In the case of the Character being found guilty of a felony, 
the insurance provider reserves the right to refuse payment.

===== PAGE 13 =====
13 
 
PATENTING YOUR PRODUCTS 
Patenting a product allows a Character to have partial protection to 
their designs. It costs 50 cR to patent a product. If another Character 
(Player or NPC) is caught stealing or breaking the patent, the 
Character can sue them. 
 If it can be proven that the patent was breeched, the 
Character can be given two options. The first option is to receive 50% 
of all sales of that item. The second is to gain ownership of that 
product that was breeching the patent. 
 
LICENSING FOR PRODUCTS 
Sometimes a Character will need to gain Licensing for a product in 
order to begin production. This could be gaining a License for an 
already-existing product that they will then begin producing for 
another Company, and other times this would be getting a License so 
you can begin production on your own products for it. 
 For example, the Character would need a License to gain 
the rights to begin manufacturing BR55 Battle Rifles.  There could be 
an agreement in this license that the Character cannot make any 
changes to the product. Another example includes gaining the License 
to begin designing and manufacturing your own variants of Mjolnir. 
This would be a case where the Player could freely begin making 
changes needed to the Mjolnir. 
 Without the Licensing for a Product made in this way, the 
Character would be held in contempt for creating a Product that was 
protected by a Patent. The Characters could also face serious prison 
time and fines if they began stealing and using patented Military 
Technology. Or worse, they could be assassinated by ONI. 
 When working with a licensed product in this way, the 
Characters could have a few types of contracts. A few examples could 
include the following: 
• The Characters  are under agreement to mass -produce 
firearms for the UNSC. These Firearms can only be sold to 
the UNSC and the UNSC will purchase all products.  The 
design has to be original. 
• The UNSC has allowed the Characters to produce a version 
of a firearm for Civilian use. The UNSC and the original 
company who designed the firearm will each receive 10% 
of all final sales 
• The Characters have an agreement to make new Mjolnir 
designs. The UNSC gets final say after reviewing the 
Prototypes before they are sent to mass production.  The 
company and all Characters involved are under heavy UNSC 
and ONI surveillance at all times. 
• The Characters gain a contract to begin working on the next 
possible replacement of the Battle Rifle. If the prototype 
does well enough, they will be chosen over the competition 
and will be given two choices: They can begin mass 
production themselves and will be paid for each that are 
made, or the Characters could receive a large lump -sum of 
cR for their work and the UNSC will begin mass production 
of the weapon.  This can be figured as the Characters 
receiving 10% of the total amount that would be purchased 
each time, while not having to handle the manufacturing, 
research, and storage needed for such a large job. 
 
INVESTING 
Investing allows for a Character to put their trust and money in 
another company, government, or business entity.  This is a risk and 
reward venture where the higher potential of rewards comes with a 
higher potential of risks. 
 When a Character wants to invest, the GM will first roll as 
many times as they desire on the Investing Table. This will give the 
Characters ample choices to make purchases on. 
 
D100 INVESTING TYPE 
1-25 Stock 
26-50 Startup 
51-75 Company Share 
71-100 Government Bond 
 
Each time an Investing Type was rolled on, the GM will then roll on 
the following Investment Cost Table to see how much each cost. 
 
D100 INVESTMENT COST 
1-11 Small Stock: 2D5 cR 
11-22 Small Stock, on the rise: 2D10 cR 
23-33 Small Stock, falling rates: 1D5+2 cR 
34-44 Large Stock: 2D10+10 cR 
45-55 Large Stock, on the rise: 3D10+10 cR 
56-66 Large Stock, falling rates: 2D10+5 cR 
67-77 High-roller Stock: 3D10+15 cR 
78-88 High-roller Stock, on the rise: 4D10+25 cR 
89-99 High-roller Stock, falling rates: 3D10+5 cR 
100 New stock just went live: 10D5 cR 
 
From here, the stock costs will change daily, however, the GM does 
not need to follow these stocks every day. The GM should only roll to 
see a change in the prices when major events happen, new products 
release, or when the players ask. 
 There are 3 types of tables, Positive, Negative, and 
Fluctuation. You can use the following “Business Event” table to roll if 
you do not have an idea of how to advance this “Stock storyline.” Let 
random chance remove you from your Players’ ire. This table can also 
be used for events that can happen in the Players’ business, as well. 
 
BEING INVESTED IN 
The Characters would be given an investment by another Company. 
This would come in form of a Contract, similar to the examples given 
in Licensing For Products. This can also be used for special company 
investments that the Characters can perform.  
The Characters could agree on an investment amount from an 
outside Company for one of a few outcome examples: 
• The Company gains partial ownership of the Character’s 
company 
• The Company gains a spot on the board of decisions and can 
make demands and vote on company decisions. 
• The Company would receive the Investment back, with a 
small percentage cut  per each item sold, once sales have 
begun. 
• The Company receives a large percentage of each sales until 
the investment has been paid back, and then receive a small 
percentage of sales afterwards.

===== PAGE 14 =====
14 
 
BUSINESS AND INVESTMENT EVENTS 
 
D100 BUSINESS EVENT 
1-2 Successful Product Launch: A new product launch exceeds expectations, boosting revenue and investor confidence.  
(Stock Price Increase) 
3-4 Resource Discovery: The company discovers a new resource deposit. (Stock Price Increase) 
5-6 Favorable Contract Awarded: The company wins a lucrative contract with the UNSC or a major civilian corporation. 
(Stock Price Increase) 
7-8 Positive Press: The company receives positive press coverage for its technological advancements or ethical practices. 
(Stock Price Increase) 
9-10 AI Partnership: The company forms a partnership with a friendly AI, enhancing its production efficiency or logistic capabilities. 
(Stock Price Increase) 
11-12 Environmental Innovation: The company develops a new, sustainable technology that reduces its environmental footprint and attracts 
eco-conscious investors. (Stock Price Increase) 
13-14 Acquisition by Industry Leader: A major player in the industry acquires the company, offering a significant premium to shareholders. 
(Stock Price Increase) [Player-owned businesses can decline this offer] 
15-16 Unexpected Market Boom:  A surge in demand for the company's products or services due to unforeseen circumstances leads to 
increased profits. (Stock Price Increase) 
17-18 Unexpected Technological Breakthrough:  A research and development team achieves a surprising breakthrough, leading to new 
product lines or production efficiencies. (Stock Price Increase) 
19-20 Expansion into New Market: The company successfully expands its operations into a new star system or market sector. 
(Stock Price Increase) 
21-22 Merger or Acquisition: The company merges with a successful competitor, creating a market leader. (Stock Price Increase) 
23-24 Discovery of New Application: A new use case is discovered for an existing product, significantly expanding the potential market. 
(Stock Price Increase) 
25-26 Positive Analyst Rating: A respected analyst firm issues a glowing report on the company, boosting investor confidence. 
(Stock Price Increase) 
27-28 Government Grant Awarded:  The company receives a government grant to fund research and development for a promising new 
technology. (Stock Price Increase) 
29-30 Unexpected Product Placement:  The company's product is featured in a popular holographic entertainment show or video game, 
leading to a massive sales spike. (Stock Price Increase) 
31-32 Social Media Frenzy: A user-generated social media campaign featuring the company's product goes viral, generating immense positive 
publicity. (Stock Price Increase) 
33-34 Discovery of Rare Resource: The company discovers a massive deposit of a rare and valuable resource, creating a strong grip on these 
resources and skyrocketing profits. (Major Stock Price Increase) 
35-36 Expansion into Unexplored Territory:  The company becomes the first to establish a major presence in a previously unexplored star 
system, opening vast new markets. (In 1 month, roll on the Fluctuation Event Table.) 
37-38 Philanthropic Efforts Praised: The company's charitable efforts are widely praised, leading to positive brand recognition and increased 
customer loyalty. (Stock Price Increase) 
39-40 Sustainable Manufacturing Process:  The company invents a new eco -friendly manufacturing process that eliminates waste and 
reduces energy consumption. (Stock Price Increase) 
41-42 New CEO Appointed: A new CEO is appointed, and investors wait to see what changes they will bring. 
(In 1 month, roll on the Fluctuation Event Table.) 
43-44 Change in Government Policy: A shift in government policy impacts the company's industry, creating uncertainty. 
(In 1 month, roll on the Fluctuation Event Table.) 
45-46 Unexpected Inspection: A regulatory body conducts an inspection of the company's facilities, leading to potential delays or fines. 
(In 2 weeks, roll on the Fluctuation Event Table.) 
47-48 Missing Colony Ship: A colony ship the company was supplying goes dark, leading to a search and rescue operation with uncertain 
outcome. (In 2D10 days, roll on the Fluctuation Event Table.) 
49-50 Discovery of Artifact:  The company uncovers a Forerunner artifact, sparking scientific interest but also raising concerns about its 
potential dangers. (In 2 months, roll on the Fluctuation Event Table.) 
51-52 Shift in Consumer Preferences: A change in consumer preferences towards a competitor's product or service impacts sales. 
(In 1 week, roll on the Fluctuation Event Table.) 
53-54 Legal Dispute: The company becomes embroiled in a legal dispute, leading to uncertainty and potential financial penalties. 
(In 3 months, roll on Fluctuation Event Table twice.) 
55-56 Hostile Takeover Attempt: Another company launches a hostile takeover bid, creating uncertainty for shareholders.  
(In 1 month, roll on Fluctuation Event Table. On rolls of 1-5,15-20, 45-50,75-80, or 95-100, the Takeover was successful.) 
57-58 Loss of Major Client: The company loses a major client, leading to a significant revenue decline. (Stock Price Decrease) 
59-60 Supply Chain Disruption:  A natural disaster or political instability disrupts the company's supply chain, impacting production and 
delivery. (Stock Price Decrease) 
61-62 Environmental Disaster:  An environmental accident caused by the company's operations leads to public outcry and regulatory 
sanctions. (Major Stock Price Decrease)

===== PAGE 15 =====
15 
 
D100 BUSINESS EVENT 
63-64 Executive Compensation Scandal: Public outrage erupts over excessive executive compensation packages, damaging the company's 
reputation. (Stock Price Decrease) 
65-66 Data Breach: A data breach exposes customer information, leading to regulatory fines and a loss of consumer confidence.  
(Stock Price Decrease) 
67-68 Cybersecurity Attack: The company experiences a cyberattack, disrupting operations and causing reputational damage. 
(Stock Price Decrease) 
69-70 Fire in Facility: A fire broke out in a company-owned facility. Currently, the damage estimates are unknown. 
(Roll on the Negative Event Table. Rolls of only 1-25 will mean the building was salvageable and damage was minor.) 
71-72 Product Recall: A safety hazard is discovered in a major product line, forcing a costly recall and damaging public trust.  
(Stock Price Decrease) 
73-74 Failed Product Launch: A new product launch flops due to technical problems or lack of market demand. (Stock Price Decrease) 
75-76 Employee Strike: Disgruntled workers stage a strike, disrupting production and causing financial losses. (Stock Price Decrease) 
77-78 Negative Press: The company is embroiled in a scandal or receives negative press for environmental damage or labor violations.  
(Stock Price Decrease) 
79-80 Leadership Controversy: A key member of the leadership team is revealed to be corrupt or incompetent, shaking investor confidence.  
(Stock Price Decrease) 
81-82 Supply Chain Disruption: A critical supplier experiences problems, causing production delays and shortages. (Stock Price Decrease) 
83-84 Pirate Raid: A pirate attack disrupts shipping lanes or damages company infrastructure. 
(Stock Price Decrease) 
85-86 Covenant Attack: During a period of heightened Covenant activity, the company's facilities are lost in an attack. 
(Major Stock Price Decrease) 
87-88 Insurrectionist Activity: The company's facilities are targeted by Insurrectionist sympathizers, causing damage and disruption.  
(Stock Price Decrease) 
89-90 UNSC Requisition: The UNSC levies a heavy requisition on the company's resources, straining production and profits.  
(Stock Price Decrease) 
91-92 Promethean Anomalies:  Forerunner Promethean technology malfunctions disrupt operations or unleashes dangerous constructs. 
(Stock Price Decrease) 
93-94 Forerunner Guardian Activation: A Forerunner Guardian awakens near a company facility, its purpose and potential threat unclear. 
(In 1 week, roll on Negative Event Table) 
95-96 Worker’s Rights Lawsuit: A new union was formed, starting a lawsuit against the company. (Stock Price Decrease) 
97-98 Rogue AI: A rogue AI has embedded itself within the company’s recent infrastructure upgrade. (Stock Price Decrease) 
99-100 Unexpected Market Crash:  A drop in demand for the company's products or services due to unforeseen circumstances leads to 
decreased profits. (Stock Price Decrease) 
 
POSITIVE 
If something positive happens to the galaxy as a whole, if a successful 
product has been launched, if a competitor has gone out of business 
or released an unsuccessful product, etc. The GM should roll on the 
Successful Table. 
 Major events will give the Test a +20. 
 
D100 INVESTING TYPE 
1-60 Stock increases by 1 cR. 
61-80 Stock increases by 1D5-2 cR, to a minimum of 1. 
81-90 Stock increases 1D5 cR. 
91-95 Stock increases 1D10 cR. 
96-98 Stock increases 2D10 cR. 
99-100 Stock increases 3D10 cR. 
 
NEGATIVE 
If something negative happens to the galaxy as a whole, if a failed 
product was launched, if a competitor has record profits or released 
a successful product, etc. The GM should roll on the Negative Table. 
 Major events will give the Test a +20. 
 
D100 INVESTING TYPE 
1-60 Stock increases by 1 cR. 
61-80 Stock decreases by 1D5-2 cR, to a minimum of 1. 
81-90 Stock decreases 1D5 cR. 
91-95 Stock decreases 1D10 cR. 
96-98 Stock decreases 2D10 cR. 
99-100 Stock decreases 3D10 cR. 
FLUCTUATION 
Fluctuation happens when an unknown event has occurred that may 
or may not affect stocks. These are events that can rarely have a 
powerful effect on stocks. 
 Incredibly negative outcomes will give the Test a +20, while 
incredibly positive outcomes will give the Test a -20. 
 
D100 FLUCTUATION EVENT 
1-10 Successful outcome of Fluctuation Event. Roll on the 
Positive Table and double the profit. 
11-29 Successful outcome of Fluctuation Event. Roll on the 
Positive Table. 
30-70 Neutral outcome of Fluctuation Event. Nothing 
happens to the stock prices. 
71-89 Negative outcome of Fluctuation Event. Roll on the 
Negative Table. 
90-100 Negative outcome of Fluctuation Event. Roll on the 
Negative Table and double the loss.
