===== PAGE 1 =====
1 
 
 
 
 
 
Covenant 
HONOR 
 
The “I’m tired of you, go to honorable promotion ” Splatbook for Mythic. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 100DOS expansion to be used with any edition of Mythic.

===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
 
COVENANT’S HONOR 
Covenant’s Honor is a splatbook designed to be used for Covenant 
Characters who want more out of their games, allowing them to track 
their accolades in the form of Honor Points. As Characters complete 
missions and take down enemies, they have a chance of gaining 
Honor Points depending on the process taken. 
 Even if the GM agrees to use Covenant’s Honor, not all 
Characters need to care about the Honor system, Honor Points, or the 
Honor of others. As Characters gain Honor, they’ll be able to earn 
benefits and roleplaying options. 
 
 
TARGET’S THREAT MODIFIER 
Target has a Heavily Armored Vehicle +40 
Target has an Armored Vehicle +20 
Target has a Vehicle +10 
Target has stronger weaponry +10 
Target has the same threat level -- 
Target is far weaker -10 
Target is weak and badly equipped -30 
Target has no weapons or armor, but you do. -40 
 
 
PREPARATION MODIFIER 
Target is Unconscious or Helpless -40 
Target is Unaware -20 
Target is prepared for a battle with you -- 
Target is better prepared than you +10 
Target had a Surprise Attack against you +30 
 
 
METHOD OF SLAYING MODIFIER 
One on One sword battle +30 
Killing with an Energy Sword/Stave +20 
Hand-to-Hand combat +15 
Killing with any other Energy Weapon +10 
Using a standard Covenant Weapon -- 
Using a Light Armored Vehicle -10 
Using an Explosive -10 
Gunning down at a far range -20 
Using an Armored Vehicle -20 
Sniping from an incredible distance -40 
Using a Heavily Armored Vehicle -40 
 
 
BATTLE SITUATION MODIFIER 
An ally helped you HP Halved 
The Target fell in battle by other means HP Removed 
The Target damaged you badly HP Halved 
You won because of dumb luck HP Halved 
 
 
DEATH, DEFEAT, RETREAT 
A Player does not always need to kill their Target to gain honor. If a 
Character forces their Target to admit defeat, or force them to retreat, 
honor is still gained. 
 Admitting defeat to a foe isn’t always dishonorable. One 
may keep their honor in -tact, even when admitting defeat, when 
fighting a Character much stronger than them.  However, in many 
circumstances, such as an honorable battle, killing someone who had 
admitted defeat is seen as a negative. Something worthy of 
punishment in the name of honor. 
DEATH, DEFEAT, RETREAT MOD 
Target admits defeat : It takes a lot to admit defeat, and 
one that can hurt, or even keep the honor in -tact, 
depending on your foe. Killing the Target which admits 
defeat negates this Modifier, and gives a -40, instead, as 
you did not take into account the honor of either of your 
family names. 
+20 
Target retreats: The target retreats and is allowed to live. 
This can also allow the retreating character to spread the 
word of your actions. Killing a retreating Target removes 
this Modifier. 
+10 
You admit defeat to a stronger foe: Admitting defeat to a 
stronger foe will allow the Character to prove themselves 
smart in battle, knowing when they’ve been bested in 
honorable combat. Doing so allows the Character to keep 
Half of the HP that they would have gotten if they would 
have won. 
Half 
HP 
You kill a foe who admitted defeat: Killing one who 
retreats or admits defeat is not seen as a righteous act. 
You have robbed them of an honorable death. 
-50 
You retreat from a stronger foe : Retreat is dishonorable 
compared to just admitting defeat and honing to your 
actions. 
-70 
You admit defeat to a weaker foe: Your foe was physically 
weaker than you, but still proved too much for you to 
handle. 
-100 
You retreat from a weaker foe:  This is seen as highly 
dishonorable. Doing so shames your name and your Keep. -150 
 
 
HP ABILITIES 
-600 
Special 
At -500 or lower, and it was gained in a reasonably 
short amount of time,  you are a ble to gain thi s 
specialized penalty at GM approval. The Character has 
the ability to become an Arbiter, if the Character is 
Sangheili. The Character will be g iven a special Minor 
Harness with a weak Cloaking Unit that only offers a 
+30 Bonus to Camouflage, which lasts for 5 Turns and 
a 5 Turn Recharge. 
-500 or 
lower 
Sangheili Nobles will be looked down upon as lesser, 
most will want the name and title to be stripped from 
them. You are not allowed to own even an Energy 
Dagger, nor is your Keep allowed to show your name. 
-200 or 
lower 
Your dishonor infects your Keep, your family, and your 
bloodline. You are not worthy of your Energy Sword . 
If you have one, you will lose it. 
-100 or 
lower 
All Characters at -100 or lower will gain a -10 Penalty 
to all Social Skill Tests among other Covenant. 
200 or 
greater 
Any Sangheili can gain their Energy Sword before their 
next mission.  Any Unggoy with 40 Intellect or more 
can gain the Deacon Upgrade and bypass restrictions. 
500 or 
greater 
Any Sangheili can gain an Energy Dagger before their 
Next Mission. Any Covenant Soldier gains a 25% 
discount to any weapon or vehicle purchased. 
800 or 
greater 
The Character is eligible to become an Honor Guard or 
an equivalent high rank. 
1,000 or 
greater 
The Character loses the penalty for purchasing 
Forerunner weaponry.  
1,500 or 
greater 
Sangheili will gain a special, customized Energy Sword 
with 2 Modifications. Jiralhanae will gain a customized 
Gravity Hammer with 2 Modifications. 
 Other Characters will gain access to an 
Energy Dagger with 2 Modifications.
