===== PAGE 1 =====
MYTHIC 6.0: WARZONE 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Welcome to the second version of the 100DOS Warzone Splatbook. 
Warzone’s original version was based on giving players access to the 
Weapon variants offered in Halo 5: Guardians’ Warzone game mode. 
This time around, I wanted to make sure Players could not only make 
those variants but  make many more types of variants based on 
building blocks for UNSC, Covenant, and Forerunner style weapons. 
While this handbook can still be used with other Expansions, such as 
Medieval Ages or The Armory, it is not advised for a GM to allow this. 
 
GM DISCRETION 
Warzone’s second version introduces new ways to further improve, 
or outright change a weapon’s design and capability. A GM should 
show discretion before allowing a Player to build weapons using this 
Splatbook. A GM should look at what is made and see if it matches 
the style of game they are running. An example being, no low -level 
Unggoy will be allowed to heavily modify their weapon without 
backlash and a possible death sentence. The UNSC Military would not 
be too happy with a Marine making a double-barreled Battle Rifle. 
 The more freeform the game, or higher Experience Level 
the players become, the more leeway they should be shown. Though, 
there are types of variants and modifications that change more minor 
aspects to the weapons, the GM should still be careful as to what they 
will or will not allow. 
 
MODIFICATION TYPES 
There are three types of Modifications within the Warzone Splatbook. 
Each type has a different amount in which it modifies a weapon.  The 
three types are Standard, Variant, and Unique.  
Some Modifications will have Limitations based on one of 
many factors, including Weapon Type, Faction, Ammunition or 
Magazine Type, etc. Players and GMs must make sure they follow 
these Modification Limitations when modifying a weapon. 
 
STANDARD MODIFICATION 
Standard Modifications are the lowest tier of weapon Modifications 
offered. These are expanded types of Weapon Modifications found in 
the UNSC section of Mythic’s Armory. 
Unlike the Modifications found in Mythic’s Armory, these 
can be universally applied to any and all weapons offered in Mythic, 
regardless of Faction or Type. Your only limitations are applying them 
to either a Ranged or Melee weapon. 
 
STANDARD MODIFICATION LIMITATIONS 
GMs should make sure Players aren’t applying too many Standard 
Modifications to a weapon. A weapon cannot have more than one 
Standard Modification for things like Chokes or Stocks.  However, a 
Player can do things like applying an Extended Barrel and a Heavy 
Barrel from the main Mythic Handbook, and then combining those 
with the Rifled Barrel for shotguns. 
 
VARIANT MODIFICATIONS 
Variants are one step above standard Modifications. Variant  
Modifications will offer more enhancements to weapons that any 
normal Modification wouldn’t allow. 
 
UNIQUE MODIFICATIONS 
Unique are Modifications that heavily changes or improves a weapon. 
Weapons can only have one Unique Modification, regardless of 
Faction or Type.  
 
MODIFICATION LIMITATIONS 
Modifications can have limitations depending on type. Standard 
Modifications can be taken as much as the GM will allow. Though 
depending on just how many are being taken or if too many 
Modifications change similar values or aspect of the weapon, the GM 
should decide if a Player has modified the weapon a bit too much. 
 Variant Modifications can only have up to 3 applied to a 
weapon, regardless of Type, Faction, or Size. This helps variants not 
becoming too overwhelmingly powerful or hard to track. 
 Unique Modifications can only be taken once per weapon, 
regardless of how many other Standard or Variant Modifications have 
been applied. 
 
REMOVING MODIFICATIONS 
Modifications may be removed at fixed rates depending on 
Modification Type. Standard Modifications are free to have removed, 
Variant Modifications cost 10 cR to remove, and Unique 
Modifications cost 20 cR to remove. A Unique Modification must be 
removed before another one can be used. The same goes for the limit 
to only having 3 Variant Modifications per weapon. 
 
NON-CANONICAL CONTENT 
There are non-canonical content offered in this Splatbook. This 
content is listed as such and should be up to the GM as to whether it 
can be taken or not. 
 
MODIFICATIONS WITH SIMILAR EFFECTS 
Modifications with similar effects should be applied in this order. 
Unique Modifications will always be applied to a weapon first. 
Afterwards, any Variant Modifications will be applied taking the 
Unique Modification’s Characteristics into account. Finally,  Standard 
and main Handbook Modifications will be applied. 
 If two Variant Modifications do the same effect to a 
weapon, such as increasing Rate of Fire or increase Range, you may 
only take the highest of the two’s effects into account. These effects 
will not stack. 
 
PRICING 
Many weapons will have their pricing based on the weapon’s price 
with a multiplication. This consists of the weapon’s base price, and 
not the weapon with any installed Modifications.  
 
CALIBER CONVERSIONS 
A Firearm Caliber Conversion can only be done by using the Mythic 
and Armory Dev Sheets, which can be accessed through the 100DOS 
and Mythic Discord server. 
 The Player or GM is able to copy the Mythic firearm of their 
choosing and paste it into the Armory Dev Sheet, which is available 
for use for anyone. From there, you’re able to put in custom 
ammunition calibers and types, which will give you both a new set of 
Damage and a new Price. The Price of the newly converted weapon is 
the price of the conversion for that weapon.

===== PAGE 2 =====
STANDARD MODIFICATIONS 
 
EQUIPMENT BENEFITS MOUNT RESTRICTION WEIGHT CR 
Law IVC Choke The Law “Infinitely Variable Choke” is a technological breakthrough for shotguns. 
This Choke registers the ammunition being loaded, allowing it to adjust its length 
and radius with each Attack made. The IVC Choke gives a +10 To Hit and increases 
Optimal range by 25%, regardless of the Shell being used. 
Barrel Shotguns 1.0 120 
Hybrid Variable 
Scope 
The Hybrid Variable Scope is an attachment that can be used with any Scopes from 
2x to 6x range. The Hybrid Scope is placed in  front of the currently -installed scope 
on the weapon. The Hybrid Scope can be activated and deactivated as a Half Action. 
When activated by flipping it down into place, the installed scope has its range 
multiplied by 2. This means a previously installed 5x scope becomes a 10x scope 
while active. The Hybrid Variable Scope can only be used with scopes on rails. Built-
in scopes and Smartlink-only scopes cannot benefit from the Hybrid Variable Scope. 
Sight N/A 0.5 75 
Sorrow Aiming 
Component 
The Sorrow Aiming Component, nicknamed “The Sack”, is a screening unit that is 
placed at the end of a weapon’s Scope, Sight, or Iron Sights. It calculates and adjusts 
for targeting and displays an aiming tracker as a hologram or projected onto the 
scope or sight. This gives a bonus +5 to Hit with any Aim Actions taken. 
Sight N/A 0.3 50 
Enhanced Frame 
Buttstock 
The Enhanced Frame Buttstock replaces the weapon’s stock, allowing the User to 
better level their weapon during Aim Actions. The Enhanced Frame Buttstock allows 
the Character to move up to their Full Action, per Round, and still keep their Aim 
Action. When using this, Aim Ac tions take one Half Action longer, which cannot be 
reduced. Only [TH] weapons can make use of this Buttstock. These weapons must 
be Rifles, Shotguns, Carbines, or other similar weapons. Cannot be used with [HW] 
Weapons. 
Stock Read Description 0.8 55 
Extended Pistol 
Buttstock 
The Extended Pistol Buttstock allows Pistols, SMGs, and other [DW] and [OH] 
weapons to gain the benefits of the Enhanced Frame Buttstock. When attached, the 
weapon is considered a [TH] weapon. Attaches and detaches as a Full Action. 
Stock [OH] and [DW] 
Weapons 
0.5 55 
Pistol Stabilizing 
Brace 
The Pistol Stabilizing Brace is a thin Stock that allows a Character to better stabilize 
a weapon when firing One Handed. When used, One -Handed and Dual -Wielding 
attacks with ranged weapons reduce the One-Handed and Dual-Wielding Penalties 
by half. 
Stock [OH] and [DW] 
Weapons 
0.3 50 
Tactile Response 
Buttstock 
The specialized Tactile Response Buttstock allows for better controlling the weapon 
while aiming and keeping a Target sighted. The Tactile Response Buttstock doubles 
the amount of Meters a Target must move before the Character loses their Aim 
Action benefits. Only [TH] weapons can make use of this Buttstock. These weapons 
must be Rifles, Shotguns, Carbines, or other similar weapons. Cannot be used with 
[HW] Weapons. 
Stock Read Description 0.8 55 
Advanced 
Combat 
Buttstock 
The Advanced Combat Buttstock is designed to assist the Character’s Aim Actions 
during heavy combat. Characters who take Damage while using the Advanced 
Combat Buttstock do not lose their Aim Action. Only [TH] weapons can make use of 
this Buttstock. These weapons must be Rifles, Shotguns, Carbines, or other similar 
weapons. Cannot be used with [HW] Weapons. 
Stock Read Description 1.0 55 
VIC-M3 Select-
Fire (SEMI) 
The VIC-M3 Select-Fire is a modification that adds a Semi-Auto Select Fire option to 
a weapon that has Burst and/or Automatic, but not Semi-Auto. This new Select Fire 
option does not replace any current Firing Types a weapon has. If a weapon has 
Semi-Auto and Burst, the Semi-Auto will be figured based on the Burst Rate of Fire, 
and not the Automatic Rate of Fire. For weapons with Burst, Semi -Auto (X) will be 
the same as Burst (X). For Automatics that do not have a Burst Firing Type, Semi -
Auto (X) is Auto (X ) halved and reduced by 1. For example, Auto (5) creates Semi -
Auto (2). 
N/A Pistol, Rifle, 
Shotgun, SMG, 
Carbine, LMG, 
MG, HMG, 
Sniper Rifle 
0.2 175 
MV0104 Burst 
Fire 
The MV0004 Burst Fire is a modification that adds Burst Select Fire to a weapon that 
has Semi-Auto and/or Automatic, but not Burst. This new Select Fire option does not 
replace any current Firing Types a weapon has. If a weapon has Semi -Auto and 
Automatic, the Burst will be figured based on the Semi -Auto Rate of Fire,  and not 
the Automatic Rate of Fire. For weapons with Semi-Auto, Burst (X) will be the same 
as Semi-Auto (X). For Automatics that do not have a Semi-Auto Firing Type, Burst (X) 
is Auto (X) halved and reduced by 1. Burst (X) cannot be larger than 5, or lower than 
2. For example, Auto (7) creates Burst (3). 
N/A Pistol, Rifle, 
Shotgun, SMG, 
Carbine, LMG, 
MG, HMG, 
Sniper Rifle 
0.2 175

===== PAGE 3 =====
EQUIPMENT BENEFITS MOUNT RESTRICTION WEIGHT CR 
AutoSeek Select 
Fire Conversion 
The AutoSeek Select Fire Conversion is a modification that adds Automatic Fire to a 
weapon that has Semi-Auto or Burst, but not Automatic. This new Select Fire option 
does not replace any current Firing Types a weapon has. The weapon’s new Auto (X) 
is either Burst or Semi -Auto (X), multiplied by 2, and then increased by +1. If the 
weapon has both Burst and Semi -Auto, the highest of the two is used to figure the 
new Automatic Rate of Fire. 
N/A Pistol, Rifle, 
Shotgun, SMG, 
Carbine, LMG, 
MG, HMG, 
Sniper Rifle 
0.2 175 
 
VARIANT MODIFICATIONS 
 
EQUIPMENT BENEFITS MOUNT RESTRICTION WEIGHT CR 
Loathsome ISC The Loathsome ISC is a Variant Modification is a set of conversion kits for Pump -
Action, Semi-Auto, and Automatic Rate of Fire Shotguns. Each kit is not compatible 
with the other Firing Types. Loathsome ISC gives the shotgun a +1 to Pump-Action 
and Semi-Auto Rate of Fire, while giving +2 to Automatic Rate of Fire Shotguns. 
Due to the recoil on Automatic Rate of Fire Shotguns, Attacks made are at a -10 
Penalty To Hit. cR price is the price of the shotgun it’s being applied to , multiplied 
by 2. 
N/A Shotgun 0.6 (X) 
CF-10  The CF-10, nicknamed “Closed Fist” , is a conversion system for weapons that fire 
standard ammunition, such as Pistols, Rifles, or Carbines. The weapon’s Rate of Fire 
is increased based on the Firing Type. Semi-Auto and Burst Firing Types are 
increased by 1, while Automatic and Sustained are increased by 2. cR price is the 
price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Non-Energy 
Non-Plasma 
Non-Hardlight 
Non-Shotgun 
0.6 (X) 
Obli-V ION The Obli-V, known as Obli -5, is a conversion system that allows any Semi-Auto or 
Burst weapon to become Automatic. Auto (X) is Semi-Auto or Burst (X), multiplied 
by 2, with an extra +1. Does not work with other Firing Types or weapons that 
already have an Automatic Firing Type. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being 
applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Semi-Auto or 
Burst Only 
0.3 (X) 
ALPHA ION The ALPHA ION is a conversion system that increases any Semi-Auto or Burst 
weapon’s Rate of Fire by 2. This conversion system removes the weapon’s Semi-
Auto and Burst Rate of Fire Bonus To Hit and gives an additional -10 Penalty To Hit. 
cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Semi-Auto or 
Burst Only 
0.3 (X) 
Lance Emitter The Lance Emitter replaces the emitting systems of weapons with the Sustained 
Rate of Fire. This increases the weapon’s Rate of Fire by 2 but gives the weapon a 
-10 Penalty To Hit. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, 
multiplied by 2. 
N/A Sustained Only 0.4 (X) 
Peace Cycler 7 The Peace Cycler 7 is an aggressive conversion system that increases the cycling 
speed for Automatic Rate of Fire. The Peace Cycler will increase the Automatic Rate 
of Fire of a weapon by 2, giving a -10 Penalty To Hit for every Attack made after the 
first. This can only be installed into weapons with an Automatic Rate of Fire of 3 or 
higher. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Auto Only 0.6 (X) 
Line AI-Assistant 
Receiver 
The Line AI-Assistant Receiver isn’t merely just somehow an “AI-powered Receiver” 
of a rifle that the name may suggest. Instead, it’s a full conversion mod that allows 
the rifle to track if a shot successfully struck its target. If a previous Attack was 
successful, the next Attack made gains a + 5 To Hit. cR price is the price of the 
weapon it’s being applied to. 
N/A Rifle, Carbine, 
Sniper Rifle, 
SMG 
1.4 (X) 
UEM Endgame The UEM Endgame is an energy-optimization system for weapons with the Energy 
Type Category. The UEM Endgame doubles the Magazine of the weapon but 
reduces the weapon’s Base Damage by 10%, rounding up. 
N/A Energy -- 40  
Left Hand Weapons with the Semi-Auto Firing Type are modified to become Burst (X), using 
the same Rate of Fire as Semi-Auto (X). This cannot be taken for weapons that 
already have the Burst Firing Type. 
N/A Semi-Auto -- 25  
Faithful W.O.M The Faithful Weapon Overheat Module (W.O.M) is a heat dispersion tool that 
reduces a weapon’s Overheat by 2, to a minimum of 1. cR price is the price of the 
weapon it’s being applied to. 
N/A Overheat (X) 0.4 (X) 
Spitfire W.O.M The Spitfire Weapon Overheat Module (W.O.M) is a new heatsink module installed 
that increases the amount of shots fired before the weapon Overheats. Weapons 
that list as Overheating within a certain amount of Rounds increase the amount of 
Rounds by 1. Weap ons that list having Overheat based on Half Actions or Shots 
fired increase the amount by 2. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied 
to, multiplied by 3. 
N/A Overheat (X) 0.4 (X)

===== PAGE 4 =====
EQUIPMENT BENEFITS MOUNT RESTRICTION WEIGHT CR 
Retina ERACS The Retina Energy Retainment and Compression Systems (ERACS) is a new plasma 
and hard light retainment system that partially improves batteries and magazines 
that house these types of energies. Increases Magazine by 25%, to a minimum of 
+1 MAG. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to. 
N/A Plasma or Hard 
Light 
0.2 (X) 
URS 
MagneBlaster 
The URS MagneBlaster is a modification that magnetically charges explosives as 
they’re being fired, giving the weapon the Homing Special Rule against any target 
with metal on it. Weapons that already have the Homing Special Rule will instead 
gain a +5 Bonus To Hit. 
Barrel Explosive 
Launchers 
0.9 85 
Typhoon 
Reloader mk3 
The Typhoon Reloader mk3 is a reloading assistance that grips a magazine as its 
being inserted, quickly driving the magazine into the weapon on its own. This 
reduces the weapon’s Reload by 25%. The weapon’s Reload is reduced by a 
minimum of 1, regardless of the base R eload Characteristic and cannot go lower 
than a Reload of 2. Typhoon Reloader can only be used with weapons that have 
magazines, such as Rifles, weapons that have Batteries, etc. 
MAG No Pump -
Action 
0.7 55 
Prototype 
Whiplash 
Charging Coupler 
The Whiplash Charging Coupler increases the speed at which weapons are able to 
Charge. A weapon with this Coupler installed will reduce the Charge needed to fire 
by 1. For weapons that use Charge as a secondary firing type that will increase its 
benefits, like the Plasma Pistol, will instead gain +1 extra to its Charge on the first 
Half Action charged. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, 
multiplied by 2. 
N/A Weapons with 
Charge 
0.6 (X) 
Arclight Charging 
Link v1.03 
The Arclight Charging Link v1.03 is an energy repeating Link that assists in keeping 
a weapon’s Charge active. Weapons with the Arclight Link can hold their Charge 
indefinitely until it’s ready to be fired. This costs no extra Ammunition. cR price is 
the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Weapons with 
Charge 
0.9 (X) 
MAGPLEX EM 1 Explosive Launchers are retrofitted to carry more ammunition. Explosive Launchers 
have their Magazine doubled, doubling the weight of the weapon to handle this. 
cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Explosive 
Launchers 
(X) (X) 
HR Pursuit 
Tracking System 
The HR Pursuit Tracking System uses an integrated wire guidance module that is 
attached to the side of the weapon. It uses an improved guidance system that 
allows for any weapon with the Homing Special Rule to gain a second Reroll on 
Failed To Hit Tests. The second Reroll attempt gained is at a -20 Penalty To Hit. cR 
price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 3. 
Side Weapons with 
Homing 
1.1 (X) 
Subanese 
Pinpoint Charger 
The Subanese Pinpoint Charger will pulsate an energy throughout the loaded 
Subanese Blamite Crystal as its loaded into the weapon. This may only be used with 
ranged weapons that take Blamite (Needler, Needle Rifle, Needle Pistol), and not 
with any Blamite -jacketed, Blamite -charged ammunition, or Blamite -filled 
warheads. The Subanese Pinpoint Charger lowers the Needle Special Rule by 1, to 
a minimum of 1, without reducing the Damage that the Needle Special Rule would 
have done if not reduced. This means that  the weapon will be able to cause a 
Supercombine with 1 less Attack needed. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s 
being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Needlers, 
Needle Rifles, 
etc 
0.3 (X)

===== PAGE 5 =====
UNIQUE MODIFICATIONS 
 
EQUIPMENT BENEFITS MOUNT RESTRICTION WEIGHT CR 
Blaze Hardlight 
C2 
The Blaze Hardlight C2 is a post -war barrel modification that swaps the Barrel out 
for a Hardlight Charging Unit (v2). This Unit is able to coat Slugs in Hard Light, giving 
it the Hard Light Special Rule when fired. The price of the Hardlight C2 is the price 
of the weapon it’s installed on, multiplied by 2. 
Barrel Shotgun 1.1 (X) 
Twin-Barrel 
Firing System 
The Twin -Barrel Firing System, nicknamed “Twin Jewels”, is an overhaul 
modification that adds another receiver and barrel to the weapon. The weapon will 
fire two shots with each Attack and draw from the same Magazine. Each Attack will 
deal two sets of Dama ge while still Opposed by one Evasion Test. The weapon’s 
weight is doubled. cR price is the price of the weapon its being applied to multiplied 
by 3. Attacks made are at a -10 Penalty To Hit. 
N/A N/A (X) (X) 
Open Hand 
AAAM 
The Open Hand AI-Assisted Aiming Module (AAAM) is a Dumb-AI powered module 
that uses a “molecularly modular barrel system” to assist in making sure attacks hit 
their target. The Open Hand Module gives any weapon the Homing Special Rule if 
it doesn’t already have it. cR price is the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 
2. 
N/A N/A 1.4 (X) 
Scale 
Magnetization 
Energy Coating 
The Scale Magnetization Energy Coating, known sometimes as SMEC, uses 
borrowed technology from the Sangheili Energy Sword. It forms a magnetized 
energy coating on the front of a weapon, giving Buttstock Attacks with the weapon 
+5 to Damage and +10 to Pierce. If applied to a [TH] weapon, it gives an extra +5 to 
Pierce. If applied to a [TH] weapon with [HW], it gives an extra +10 to Pierce, 
instead. 
Barrel N/A 2 100 
Hailstorm 
Plasma-Piloted 
Control System 
Using technology based on the Covenant’s homing plasma technology, 
ammunition is jacketed in this plasma to drive it towards its intended target.  
Hailstorm gives weapons a +10 To Hit on rerolls given by the Homing Special Rule. 
cR price is the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
Barrel Homing 
Special Rule 
0.2 (X) 
T.A.L.O.N The TALON Modification is a sharpening system and an improvement to the 
weapon’s forward -launching-driver that fires the Blamite crystal shards. This 
combination gives Blamite weapons the Penetrating Special Rule. 
N/A Needle 
Special Rule 
0.4 (X) 
River Rapid-
Cycler 
The River Rapid-Cycler overhaul the cycling systems of any Explosive Launcher to 
allow for an alternate fire Charge (X) with Burst (X) Firing Type. This new Firing Type 
increases Burst (X) by 1 for each Half Action Charged. (X) Cannot surpass the 
amount of Ammunition still within the weapon’s Magazine, and (X) cannot surpass 
3. Once Charged, the weapon fires Burst (X) for that many Charge Actions taken. 
cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 3. 
N/A Explosive 
Launchers 
2.1 (X) 
Radiance 
Plasmatic 
Explosive Driver 
The Radiance Plasmatic Explosive Driver uses proprietary technology that 
overcharges explosives as a Half Action. Once overcharged, the explosive will leave 
a pool of ultra -hot molten metal within the weapon’s Blast (X) radius. For each 
Round inside the mo lten metal Radius, Characters are dealt the weapon’s Base 
Damage and Pierce. The molten metal Radius lasts for 2 Rounds after being fired. 
cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 3.  
N/A Explosive 
Launchers 
2.6 (X) 
ONI Explosive 
Driver 
The ONI Explosive Driver is an ONI -derived system similar to the Radiance 
Plasmatic Explosive Driver. Instead, the ONI Explosive Driver overcharges Energy 
weapon attacks as a Half Action. Any overcharged Attacks will deal its normal 
Damage on impact, but at the beginning of the next Round, the overcharged effect 
activates as a second set of the Damage made is dealt again to all Targets within 
Blast (X), where (X) is 1 for each Damage Dice the weapon has. cR price is the price 
of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 3. 
N/A Energy 2.6 (X) 
DELTA Driver The DELTA Driver is a Driver system similar to the Radiance Plasmatic Explosive 
Driver. Instead, the DELTA Driver will charge over the course of one Round once 
activated. Each Round, the first Attack made with the weapon will gain the 
Gravimetric (2) Special Rule. Once 4 shots have been made, the DELTA Driver must 
Recharge for 4 Rounds. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, 
multiplied by 4. 
N/A N/A 2.8 (X) 
ECHIDNA 
Explosive Driver 
The Echidna Driver is an EMP charging mechanism.  The ECHIDNA Driver will charge 
over the course of one Round once activated. Each Round, the first Attack made 
with the weapon will gain the EMP  (2) Special Rule. cR price is the price of the 
weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Explosive 
Launchers 
2.6 (X)

===== PAGE 6 =====
EQUIPMENT BENEFITS MOUNT RESTRICTION WEIGHT CR 
STAR 
Ammunition 
Driver 
The STAR Ammunition Driver is an ONI -derived system similar to the Radiance 
Plasmatic Explosive Driver. Instead, the STAR Ammunition Driver only works on 
standard infantry weapons that use bullets as ammunition. This includes Rifles, 
Pistols, Carbines, etc . The STAR Driver will charge over the course of one Round 
once activated. Each Round, the first Attack made with the weapon will deal its 
Damage normally. However, at the beginning of the next Turn, the Character that 
was struck will take the Damage dealt  a second time. cR price is the price of the 
weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 4. 
N/A Read 
Description 
1.9 (X) 
Slumber Force 
Amplification 
Driver 
The Slumber Force Amplification Driver was overseen by SPECWARCOM and 
designed for UNSC Army Rangers for their Advanced Counterinsurgency missions. 
The Slumber Driver will charge over the course of one Round once activated. Each 
Round, the first Attack made will push back the Target (X) Meters in the opposite 
direction from where the Attack was made, where (X) is how many Damage Dice 
the weapon has multiplied by 2. The Target must make a Strength Test to  reduce 
the pushback, where each Degree of Success reduces it by 1. Every 50 kg a Target 
weighs will reduce (X) by 1, as well.  cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being 
applied to, multiplied by 3. 
N/A N/A 2.8 (X) 
Victoriam Multi-
Barrel Retrofit 
The Victoriam Multi-Barrel Retrofit replaces the weapon’s barrel with a triangular-
configuration with 3 barrels. This turns the weapon’s Rate of Fire into Burst (3) with 
a -20 Penalty To Hit. This doubles the weapon’s Weight. cR price is the price of the 
weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Explosive 
Launchers 
(X) (X) 
High 5MBR The High VMBR, nicknamed “High Five”, is a retrofit that replaces the weapon’s 
barrel with 5 smaller barrels in a square configuration. This turns the weapon’s 
Rate of Fire into Burst (5) with a -20 Penalty To Hit. The Base Damage of the weapon 
is halved. It fires unique variations of the ammo it would normally take, which cost 
twice as much, each, due to the rarity. This triples the weapon’s Weight. cR price 
is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 3. 
N/A Explosive 
Launchers 
(X) (X) 
MAGCHARGE EX The Magcharge EX is a Smartlink camera system that tracks and detonates the 
warhead of the explosive when it’s within range of the Target. This allows the 
Character to reroll failed To Hit Tests with explosives. If Successful, every Degree 
of Success brings the Explosive 1 Meter closer to the Target, starting at 7 Meters 
away. If Failed, the Attack misses as normal and detonates before impacting a 
surface, outside of the Blast Radius needed to hit the initial Target . cR price is the 
price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 2. 
N/A Explosive 
Launchers 
0.9 (X) 
Razor Photon 
Sphere Inducer 
The Razor Photon Sphere is an emitter overhaul for Hard Light weapons. These 
destabilize the Photons that are emitted by the Hard Light weapons and cause 
them to violently disperse after impact. The Razor Photon Sphere Inducer gives 
Forerunner Hard Light weapons the Needle (X) Special Rule, where (X) is th e 
weapon’s Damage Dice. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, 
multiplied by 3. 
N/A Forerunner 
Hard Light 
Weapons 
1.1 (X) 
Unbound Burst 
Collimator 
The Unbound Burst Collimator is a feature that overhauls a plasma weapon’s firing 
systems, giving it a new Charge (1), Auto (1) Attack. This new Charge Attack cycles 
the plasma into new Multi-Burst Collimator that has 6 new micro-ejection ports at 
the front of the weapon. When fired, the weapon gains the Spread Special Rule 
and the Atta ck gains +1 Damage Dice.  For this Attack, the Close Range of the 
weapon is 15 Meters, and the Optimal Range is 40 Meters.  If the weapon’s Damage 
Dice is 4 or more, the Character must make a Strength Test when fired. If Failed, 
the Character is pushed back 1 Meter. If Failed by 2 or more Degrees of Failure, the 
weapon is dropped. If Failed by 4 or more Degrees of Failure, the weapon is 
launched backwards, out of the hands of its user, 1 Meter for each Damage Dice of 
the Weapon. cR price is the price of the weapon it’s being applied to, multiplied by 
4. 
Barrel Plasma 
Battery 
Ammunition 
Weapons 
(X) (X) 
ARCANE Anion 
Accelerator 
The ARCANE Anion Accelerator is an improved accelerator and emitter for the 
Anion particles fired by Forerunner beam weapons. This Anion Accelerator is a 
powerful emitter that nearly doubles the energy -intake to fire, but heavily 
increases the damage output capability of the weapon. The weapon’s Sustain Rate 
of Fire and Magazine are both halved, but the Damage Dice are doubled. This 
increases the weapon’s weight by 25%, and cR price is the price of the weapon it’s 
being applied to, multiplied by 5. 
N/A Forerunner 
Beam 
Weapons 
(X) (X)

===== PAGE 7 =====
EXPANDED AMMUNITION TYPES 
 
EXPLOSIVES AND EXPLOSIVE LAUNCHERS PRICE PER ROUND 
AMMUNITION DAMAGE PIERCE ABILITY PRICE 
SCAR Blamite Warhead -5 -6 Gains Needle (X), where (X) is the amount of Damage Dice of the Weapon. 
Each Degree of Success on the To Hit counts as embedding 1 Needle into any 
Target within the Blast Radius. Those within the Kill Radius take 2 Needles, 
instead. 
25 cR 
PRO Ricocheting Warhead -3 -3 Explosives from Explosive Launchers are able to ricochet off of surfaces once. 
This allows explosives to be launched around corners with a -60 Penalty To 
Hit. If used with Indirect Fire, these Penalties are removed. 
15 cR 
 
 
UNSC NON-CANON BLAMITE WEAPON MODIFICATIONS 
 
SHOTGUN ROUNDS PRICE PER SHELL 
AMMUNITION DAMAGE PIERCE COMPATIBILITY ABILITY PRICE 
Blamite Slug (BSL) +8 -4 None Needle (1) Special Rule, removes Spread Special Rule. On 
contact, Blamite Slug instantly detonates with Blast (2). 
5 Cr 
Blamite Shot (BMS) -2 -2 All Shot Shells Needle (4) Special Rule, Spread Special Rule. For every 
Degree of Success on the Attack, it counts as +1 Needle 
needed for Needle Special Rule to detonate. 
3 cR 
 
 
 
STANDARD AMMUNITION CUSTOMIZATION OPTOINS PRICE PER ROUND 
AMMUNITION DAMAGE PIERCE COMPATIBILITY ABILITY PRICE 
Blamite Jacketed (BMJ) -- -2 HE, IN, HV, HYV Needle (X) Special Rule, where (X) is decided by the 
weapon’s Rate of Fire.  
 
Semi-Auto - (X) is Semi-Auto (X) + 1 
Automatic – (X) is Automatic Rate of Fire halved +1 
Burst – (X) is Burst (X) +1 
 
If the weapon used does not follow one of these three 
Rate of Fire types, it is not compatible with the BMJ 
Customization Option. 
5 cR
