===== PAGE 1 =====
cauter

===== PAGE 2 =====
For use with 
 
 
 
 
 
6.0 and newer Handbooks.

===== PAGE 3 =====
SKULL GAMEPLAY MODIFIERS 
 
SKULLS 
Skulls are Halo’s gameplay modifier system. Skulls change various 
aspects of both the gameplay and systems of 100DOS to create 
unique experiences. These modifications range from making the 
system much easer for the player, to making the game grueling and 
difficult. Some Skulls are also just there to add a funny or strange new 
gimmick that players need to work around. 
 
ROLLING SKULLS 
The GM may roll for Skulls to add to the game either before or during 
gameplay. The Skull table is marked with a # column which is the 
outcome of a D100 roll. The GM may decide if a roll outcome is too 
extreme or unfitting. 
 The GM may set checkpoints in their game that will activate 
a new Skull being activated. This could be killing a set amount of 
enemies, finishing set goals, completely missions, etc. 
 
SKULL MODIFIERS 
Skull Modifiers can alter the amount of cR and Experience earned. 
These give a value of either 0.x or 1.x, which is a multiplier to the 
amount of cR and EXP being given to the Players. 
 Skulls that give 0.x will reduce the amount of cR and EXP 
given, while Skulls that give 1.x will increase the amount of cR and EXP 
given. 
 
 
 
 
SKULL CR EXP DESCRIPTION # 
Acrophobia 0.75x 0.5x All Player Characters gain the Flight Trait at Character Creation. 1 
Action Figure 
Hands 
0.9x 0.9x Player Characters are immune to the Heavy Weapon [HW] Tag rules and do not need to brace weapons. 2 
After Party 0.65x -- If a Player Character owned Vehicle is destroyed, it is temporarily replaced with a larger Vehicle. This vehicle lasts 
for 10 Rounds and is then gone forever. When the Vehicle vanishes, the Players inside will fall to the ground. 
Destroyed UNSC vehicles become a M808C Scorpion Tank, Covenant vehicles will become a Type -26 Wraith, 
Banished Vehicles will become a Type-26 Assault Gun Wraith, Forerunner Vehicles will become a Z-1800 Phaeton, 
and Human Civilian Vehicles will become a JOTUN Olifant. If the Vehicle that was destroyed turned into a Vehicle 
had Crew that cannot fit into the new Vehicle, those Characters fall onto the ground outside of the Vehicle. After 
Party can only be used once a Mission, or once every week in-game. If the spawned-in Vehicle is destroyed, it will 
vanish. 
3 
All Sloppy/No 
Joe 
-- -- All Characters have a -20 Penalty to Evasion and -20 to Warfare Melee and Warfare Range Tests. Characters cannot 
take Aim Actions. The effects of Suppressing Fire and Pinning are doubled. 
4 
And the 
Knockout 
Punch 
-- 1.2x Characters may only make one Melee Attack per Half Action, but it is at a -30 Penalty to Evade and will deal double 
the Damage to Wounds. 
5 
Anger 0.75x -- All weapon Rate of Fire is increased by 50% , rounding down . Weapons that have a Rate of Fire of 1 have it 
increased to 2. 
6 
Assassins -- 1.5x All enemy Characters have a Covenant Active Camo Cloaking System, regardless of race or faction. 7 
Bandanna 0.25x -- All Player Characters have Infinite Ammo for weapons that come from their Equipment Package. 8 
Basically 
Naive 
-- -- All weapons have their Pierce and Base Damage swapped. Pierce is halved when becoming Base Damage. 9 
Big Al's 
Scooter 
-- 1.5x All enemy Characters are up to 2 Size Categories larger, to a maximum of "Massive." 10 
Black Eye 1.25x -- Character Energy Shields will only begin Recharge if they make a Melee Attack against another Character. Vehicle 
Energy Shields will only begin Recharge if they run into another Vehicle or Character and deal Damage. 
11 
Blind 1.2x 1.2x All Player Characters cannot use Ammo Counters, VISR, Motion Trackers, or Rada rs of any kind. If a Character is 
going to run out of Ammo during a Turn, they must make a -20 Intellect or Perception Test. If Failed, they must 
continue attacking until they fully run out of Ammo. This will then increase the weapon's reload time by 3. 
12 
Bonded Pair -- 0.95x If a Player Character dies or has Wounds in the negatives, all allied Player Characters gain +25% Base Damage 
output for 5 Rounds. 
13 
Boom 0.75x -- All radius of Blast, Kill, Gravity, and Gravimetric are increased by 25%. 14 
Boomstick 1.1x 1.3x All Characters and Vehicles have a 5% chance of exploding with the force of an M9 Grenade upon death, even if 
Luck is burnt to survive. Explosion is applied before Luck. 
15 
Bountiful 
Harvest 
0.75x -- Characters begin with +3 Supply Points at Character Creation and gain +1 Supply Points whenever one is gained. 16 
BTDBMOTF -- 1.1x Characters have difficulty speaking in anything other than one -liners. When attempting to speak in any way, the 
Character must make a Courage or Leadership Test. If failed, the Character responds with a one-liner that cannot 
be truly useful in any way to the party and cannot be used to share information. 
17 
Butterfinger -- 1.1x To Hit rolls of 80 and higher will cause the Character to drop their weapon. 18 
Catch -- 1.4x All enemy Characters begin with 5 extra Grenades and other explosive devices. They also gain a +20 Bonus to their 
Warfare Melee when throwing them. 
19 
Clear Skies 0.5x -- All Motion Trackers and Radars detect 5x farther. 20

===== PAGE 4 =====
Court Jester -- 1.5x All Player Characters have a 25% chance to drop their Weapon at the end of their Turn if they made an Attack. 
This is increased to 40% if the Character was using a Heavy Weapon.  This effect happens regardless of weapon 
Special Rules, Modifications, or any Equipment. 
21 
Cowbell 1.25x -- Any object, vehicle, or Character struck by an Attack with Blast, Kill, Gravimetric, or Gravity Special Rules will be 
Scattered 5D10 Meters from where they were standing, reduced by 1 Meter for every 100kg they weigh. 
22 
Emperor 0.5x -- Cooldowns, Recharge, Charge, and Overheat times are halved for all Abilities, Skills, Traits, Weapons, and 
Equipment. 
23 
Envy -- 0.5x All player Characters have a Covenant Active Camo Cloaking System, regardless of race or faction. 24 
Eye Patch 1.5x -- Player Characters cannot gain benefits from Lasers, Scopes, Sights, and Optics. 25 
Famine 1.5x -- All Characters  and Autoloaders  begin with only one magazine of Ammo for their weapon. This includes any 
weapons purchased. A Character cannot hold more than one extra Magazine per weapon. 
26 
Fashionably 
late 
-- -- At the beginning of Combat, all Player Characters reduce their Initiati ve by 2, but their first Attack that deals 
Damage to a Character will deal 25% more total Damage. 
27 
Feather -- 1.5x Characters weigh 10% of their original weight. Anything that would move the Character is increased tenfold. 28 
Feeble -- -- All Damage is converted to Special Damage. Characters do not have Wounds. 29 
Firestarter -- 1.1x Any Character that dies explodes as a NAPALM Grenade with +3 to the Blast Radius. This is figured before Luck 
can be burnt to survive. 
30 
Flyswatter -- 1.1x Ally enemy Characters have the Flight Trait but  can only move at half speed while flying. When flying, these 
Characters take 25% more total Damage to both Wounds and Energy Shields. 
31 
Fog -- 1.2x Player Characters cannot use Motion Trackers or Radars of any kind. 32 
For a Brick... -- 0.7x Player Characters are able to double their Characteristics when finding their Jump and Leap. The Player Characters 
are able to Leap into enemy Targets as a Full Action, dealing the Punch Melee Attack with triple the Base Damage. 
This leaves both Characters on the ground, Prone. If the enemy Evaded the Attack, only the Player Character is 
left Prone. 
33 
Foreign 1.25x -- Characters cannot learn Faction Training beyond their original faction. Characters cannot use Weapons, Armor, 
Vehicles, and Equipment from other Factions. 
34 
Ghost 1.15x 1.15x All enemy Characters are not affected by Suppressing Fire, Fear, or any Courage-based Tests that would negatively 
affect them. 
35 
Grunt 
Birthday Party 
-- -- All Characters who die will have their head explode into confetti. This will also alert anyone within a 50 Meter 
radius with the loud audible noise it makes. 
36 
Grunt Funeral -- -- When Characters die, they explode as a Plasma Landmine. This is done before the Character can Burn Luck to 
survive. 
37 
Headless 
Horseman 
-- 1.5x All Player Characters Perceptive Range is halved, and any benefits from Scopes, Sights, Optics, or Lasers are 
reduced by half, rounding down. 
38 
Heavyweight 
Champion 
-- 0.9x All Player Characters weigh 3x more and their Movement Speed multipliers are reduced by 1 for Full Move, Charge, 
Run, and Sprint. All unarmed Melee Damage is doubled against enemy Characters. 
39 
Hollow 1.15x 1.25x If a Character who has an Energy Shield has i ts Shield Integrity reduced to 0, the Character takes 10 Damage to 
their Wounds, ignoring Damage Resistance.  
40 
Hyper-Lethal 
Vector 
-- 0.4x All Player Characters are able to take one more Half Action per Turn. 41 
Iron 1.5x 2x If one Player Character dies, all Player Characters in the party must Burn a point of Luck for the Character to 
survive. 
42 
IWHBYD -- 1.1x All Characters must make a +10 Charisma Test when speaking. If Failed, they will say something odd, silly, or stupid. 
This will wa ste their ability to share information this Turn. If failed with two or more Degrees of Failure, the 
Disposition of everyone within earshot is reduced by 1.  
43 
Jacked 1.25x -- Player Characters can only pilot vehicles if they hijack them from an enemy Character. 44 
Lemon 1.25x -- All Breakpoints of Vehicles are halved. Vehicles with Heavy Plating lose its effects, Vehicles without Heavy Plating 
take double the Damage. All Vehicle Modifications that increase Break Points have their benefits halved. 
45 
Like It Rough -- 1.25x Special Damage is dealt with every Attack made, regardless of Damage results. 46 
Like-New 1.1x -- Vehicle Acceleration Speeds are doubled, while Brake Speeds are halved, rounding down. 47 
Look Daddy! 1.1x -- When a Character dies, their equipment and armor is automatically removed from their body and flies 2D10 
Meters into the air. All equipment take Fall Damage and only have 50 Break Points. 
48 
Look Out For 
The Little 
Guys 
-- 0.8x All enemy Characters are up to 2 Size Categories smaller, to a minimum of "Mini." 49 
Malfunction 1.1x 1.1x At the beginning of every Round, all Characters must roll a D100. A roll of 75 or higher will cause that Character's 
Equipment, Armor Abilities, and Permutations to not work for that Round. 
50 
Master Blast 0.75x 0.95x At the beginning of every Round, one Player Character gains 150 "Overshield" which are Energy Shields that 
overlap any existing Energy Shield. Another Player is given infinite ammo meaning any shots taken do not reduce 
total Ammunition in the magazine. These are lost at the end of the Round. 
51 
Moon Gravity -- -- The Gravity is reduced by half, allowing Characters to jump higher. 52 
Moon-Curser -- -- All Player Characters gain +4 to their Agility Modifier when figuring Charge, Sprint, and Run Movement Speeds. 
Whenever a Character uses Charge, Sprint, or Run, they take 2 Damage that cannot be reduced. 
53

===== PAGE 5 =====
Movie Magic -- 0.8x All Tests use the Character's Stunting Skill, regardless of type of Action being taken. 54 
Mr. Punctual -- 0.7x Player Characters always go before Enemy Characters in the Initiative. 55 
Mythic 1.5x 2x All enemy Characters begin with 50% more Energy Shields and Wounds , rounding down . Any allied NPCs also 
benefit from this Skull. 
56 
Naked 1.5x 1.5x All Characters cannot wear Armor, BDUs, or Combat Harnesses. 57 
Never Tell Me 
The Odds 
-- -- Instead of finding Degrees of Failure and Degrees of Success normally, the Character rolls 1D10 to figure how many 
Degrees of Success or Failure they get on a Test. 
58 
Nightmare -- 2x Characters cannot Burn Luck. 59 
Own Worst 
Enemy 
-- 1.2x All Degrees of Success and Degrees of Failure are doubled. 60 
Pacifist 1.25x 1.25x Any time a Character fires a weapon in a Turn, they lose 1 Wound at the end of the Round. If the Character has 
Energy Shields, they also lose 25 Shield Integrity at the end of the Round. 
61 
Pain Train 0.75x -- All Trained Skills are at a 50% Experience discount. 62 
Paintball -- -- Weapons with Blast or Kill will launch paint outward, splattering color against anything in its path. This also paints 
Characters.  
63 
Pestilence -- -- While in combat, all Player Characters will lose 1 Wound every 5 Rounds, but Biofoam and Sealant Mesh no longer 
reduce amount healed with each use. 
64 
Pinata 0.5x -- Melee Attacks that deal Special Damage will cause one GM-chosen Grenade to fall out of an enemy Character. 65 
Poor Temper -- 1.2x All enemies have the Berserk Trait, regardless of race or faction. 66 
Prophet 
Birthday Party 
-- -- Melee Attacks are accompanied by guitar solo sound effects that can be heard within a 25 Meter radius. 67 
Rebel Leader 1.4x -- Character's Armor is ignored by any Vehicle-based weapon. 68 
Rebel 
Supporter 
1.2x -- Characters take 50% more Damage from Vehicle Splatter, Manslaughter, and Vehicle Wrecking. 69 
Rebel 
Sympathizer 
1.1x -- Vehicle weapons have 25% more Pierce, rounding down. 70 
Recession 1.5x -- All Attacks made with firearms cost double the ammunition. 71 
Scarab 0.9x 0.9x Weapons that roll a Natural 01, 02, or 03 on To Hit will fire as a Scarab's Type-30 Focus Cannon with a -20 Penalty 
To Hit. This causes the Character to fly backwards 2D10 Meters from recoil and land Prone on their back. 
72 
Shadow -- -- When Combat begins, all involved Characters are given a Covenant Active Camo Cloaking System that is instantly 
activated. Once the Active Camo Cloaking System needs to recharge, it is destroyed and cannot be repaired. 
73 
Sickness 1.2x 1.2x All Characters have 50% less total Wounds, rounding down. 74 
So... Angry... -- -- Characters who go into Adrenaline Rush or Berserk are at a +20 Bonus to get to snap out of it by other Characters. 
But if the Character does not come out of these effects, they will detonate as an M9 High -Explosive grenade at 
the beginning of every 5th Round. 
75 
Special 
Delivery 
0.8x -- All thrown weapons, including grenades, never scatter. 76 
Sputnik 1.1x -- All Characters and Vehicles weigh 50% less. Characters struck by Attacks will be Scattered 1D5 Meters. 77 
Streaking -- -- Player Character Energy Shields decay 5 Shield Integrity per Turn. Energy Shields gain +5 Shield Integrity per Attack 
struck against an enemy Character. 
78 
Sugar Cookies 0.5 0.5 All Characters have 100% more Total Wounds. 79 
Swarm -- 1.2x All enemy Characters that are Large, Huge, and Hulking have 10 extra Wounds and +1 to Mythic Strength, 
Toughness, and Agility. 
80 
That's Just 
Wrong 
-- -- All Characters are able to hear any footsteps made, any speaking, any Attacks made, and any sound of switching 
equipment or weapons within a 10 Meter radius. 
81 
They Come 
Back 
-- 1.2x Flood Characters that get reanimated by Infection Forms gain 10 extra Wounds and come back at full health. 82 
Things That 
Go Boom 
-- -- If a Player Character dies, they detonate as a HAVOK Tactical Nuclear Weapon. Player Characters must burn 3 
points of Luck to survive. 
83 
Thinkin' About 
My Doorbell 
1.1x 1.1x All doors are always locked for Player Characters at all times. Any time the Player Characters manage to open, 
enter, or destroy a door, all enemy Players are alerted. Doors should be trapped in various ways that are up to the 
GM. 
84 
Thunderstorm 1.2x -- The GM must give all enemy Characters the one of the higher tier Armor, BDU, or Combat Harness of their race. 
As an example, a Grunt Minor would still have the Ultra Combat harness or better. 
85 
Tilt 0.9x -- All weapons that fire solid projectiles, such as an Assault Rifle or a Covenant Carbine, gain +25% more Pierce 
against Characters, rounding down. All Plasma and Energy weapons, such as the Plasma Rifle or Spartan laser, gain 
+25% more Base Damage against Energy Shields and Vehicles, rounding down. 
86 
To War... -- 1.1x Player Characters cannot use Navigation tools, Skills, or Characteristic Tests. The Character gains a -20 Penalty to 
all Perception and Intellect Tests, as well as Tests for Piloting Vehicles. The Characters gain a +10 Bonus to Warfare 
Melee and Warfare Range Tests. 
87 
Total 
Annihilation 
0.85x 0.95x Characters that land Melee Attacks against enemies deal the Damage as Blast (3), Kill (1). The Characters take half 
of the Damage rolled against the enemy. 
88 
Tough Luck -- 1.25x All enemy Characters gain a +20 Bonus to Evasion. 89

===== PAGE 6 =====
Two Heads 
Are Better 
Than None 
-- 1.6x All Actions made by Player Characters must be a Combined Action with another Player Character. 90 
Unknown 0.5x -- All Characters begin the mission with a Spartan Laser that cannot be reloaded. Once it runs out of Ammunition, it 
will explode after 3 Rounds. The explosion deals the Damage of the Lotus Anti-Tank Mine. 
91 
Unusually 
Quiet 
-- 1.2x Player Characters cannot hear  the buzzing noise made by Active Camo or any other cloaking systems. The 
Characters cannot gain benefits from seeing cloaked enemies multiple times. VISR and other systems cannot spot 
cloaked Characters. 
92 
Vampire -- -- When making an Attack, the Character is healed by 10% of the Wounds the enemy Character took. 93 
Weary 1.1x 1.2x All Fatigue gained by any Character is doubled. 94 
What's in the 
Box? 
-- -- When combat begins, all involved Characters have their weapons randomly swapped around. What Character 
getting what weapon may be chosen by the GM or randomly assigned. 
95 
WINTER 
CONTINGENCY 
-- 1.6x All enemy Characters are able to take one more Half Action per Turn. 96 
With a Bang -- 1.75x Player Characters always take Special Damage from Attacks. Player Characters cannot Burn or Spend Luck. When 
a Player Character dies, all allied Characters gain a +20 Bonus To Hit and gain Dice Minimum (X) to all Attacks, 
where (X) is +2 for every Player Character who died, to a maximum of 10.  
97 
With a 
Whimper 
1.1x -- All explosives have a 50% chance of not detonating, becoming a useless piece of equipment. 98 
Wuv Woo -- 0.9x Weapons with the Sustained Rate of Fire will have their ammunition visually replaced with rainbows, and blood 
and impact on Characters are replaced with hearts. It still hurts, mind you. Characters that take damage from 
these weapons must make a +10 Toughness Test. If failed, they are knocked prone and begin laughing. Lau ghing 
Characters take -10 Penalty To all Actions during that Turn. 
99 
You Didn't 
Win 
-- 0.7x When a Player Character dies, before any Luck is Burnt, the enemy Character who killed the Player takes the same 
amount of Wound damage, ignoring Damage Resistance. 
100

===== PAGE 7 =====
Published using Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat Pro for free use. 
For more information, questions, queries to rules, or to just pass a greeting, email me at vorked@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You can find me on Twitter @Vorked, and on reddit u/Vorked. You can find a subreddit dedicated to Halo Mythic and 100DOS at /r/HaloMythic. I 
also have a Patreon where future updates and news are posted. This can be found at patreon.com/Vorked. Thank you for your time! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100DOS Game System is Copyright © 2022 Brandon Miller. All Rights Reserved.
