===== PAGE 1 =====


===== PAGE 2 =====
CYBERNETICS SPLATBOOK 
INTRODUCTION 
The Cybernetics Splatbook is a commissioned 100DOS Splatbook built 
to be used alongside other Splatbooks. These are optional Character 
Modifications that a GM may allow to be used in their campaigns. This 
Splatbook is balanced towards Mythic and The Armory, but there is 
no reason it couldn’t also b e used with others to make your own 
settings and unique campaigns. 
 
USE IN YOUR GAMES 
Some aspects of the Cybernetics Splatbook may be considered more 
powerful than the GM might intend for their campaign. Soldier Types 
like Spartan IIs, who already receive  major benefits at Character 
Creation, can heavily compound their capabilities by gaining even 
further, similar benefits. Players should always ask for permission 
before using this Splatbook. 
 
CYBERNETICS 
Cybernetics are body replacements, enhancements, or last -ditch-
effort tools that Characters can get access to. The capabilities, 
strengths, and benefits are incredibly varied, based on a the 
Cybernetic being purchased. 
 Each Body Hit Location has its own s eries of Cybernetics 
that can be applied to a Character, such as Limb Replacements. Each 
Body Hit Location has optional Sublocation Cybernetics. These include 
things like Eye Cybernetics, Hand Cybernetics, etc. 
 
VARIANTS 
Cybernetics have Variants that dete rmine the Price, Break Points, 
Armor, and benefits that the Cybernetic gives. Each Variant will have 
its own description within the Information section of the table. 
 
PRICING 
Cybernetics have a Base Price listed. This Base Price is the lowest price 
offered for the Cybernetics. Each Variant will have its own listed price 
under the description of the item. 
 
LOCATION CYBERNETIC 
A Location Cybernetic is a Cybernetic that replaces or is installed into 
an entire Body Location. Th ese Cybernetics include full Limb 
replacements, Limb Enhancements, and Cybernetic Shells. 
 
SUBLOCATION CYBERNETIC 
A Sublocation Cybernetic is a Cybernetic that is installed onto or 
replaces a Sublocation of the body. These include things like Ear and 
Eye Cybernetics, or even Heart or Forearm Cybernetics. These may be 
installed onto Location Cybernetics. Sublocation Cybernetics have 
Armor and Break Points of their own, but if installed onto a Location 
Cybernetic, they will take the Armor of that Location Cybernetic. 
 
CYBERNETIC LIMITATIONS 
The following list limits what Cybernetics cannot be used for. This 
helps make sure that Characters do not abuse this system and 
become too powerful or misuse the system out of misunderstanding 
how it works. Please make sure to read through this section as  there 
are not many limitations but are still important. 
 
• Characters cannot use Cybernetics to gain extra limbs their 
race does not normally have.  
• Characters cannot take more than one of the same type of 
Cybernetic per Location, whether it be Location or 
Sublocation.  
• Cybernetics cannot gain benefits from a Character’s 
Toughness or Mythic Characteristics unless specified 
otherwise. 
 
ARMOR AND BREAK POINTS 
Cybernetics use Armor instead of the Character’s Toughness Modifier 
and Mythic Toughness. This Armor stacks with worn Armor. Attacks 
that deal Damage to a Cybernetic will always deal Break Point Damage 
to that Cybernetic. Under certain circumstances, Damage to the 
Cybernetic will also deal Wounds to the Character.  
Arm and Leg Cybernetics use Break Points instead of dealing 
Damage to the Character’s Wounds. Any Sublocation Cybernetic that 
are not installed onto a Location Cybernetic will deal Wounds to the 
Character, regardless of the Location it is on. 
 
LIMB REPLACEMENTS 
Limb Replacements are just as they sound, they replace Arms or Legs 
of the Character. Limb Replacements have their own Break Points and 
Armor based on the Tier of the Replacement. Attacks that strike Limb 
Replacements do not Damage a Character’s Wounds. Characters can 
only take one Limb Replacement per Limb. 
 
CYBERNETIC ENHANCEMENTS 
Cybernetic Enhancements are cybernetics that implant into existing 
Body Locations. Cybernetic Enhancements have Break Points and can 
offer Armor, but Attacks that strike Enhancements will deal Damage 
to Wounds if they are not installed onto a Limb Replacement.  
 Enhancement Armor on Sublocations will not give its Armor 
to the Character’s Wounds, the Armor is only for figuring Break Point 
Damage for the Cybernetic. 
 Only one Cybernetic Enhancement can be installed per 
Location and Sublocation. For example, a Character cannot take th e 
LCX-50 Eye Enhancement and the FSL Core-Sight Enhancement at the 
same time. 
 
CYBERNETIC SHELLS 
Cybernetic Shells are encasings that are installed onto a Character’s 
Body Location. These Shells will replace the skin and some segments 
of the Character’s muscular system  on the Location installed . Shells 
have Break Points and offer extra Armor against A ttacks that ignore 
Armor or when the Character is not currently wearing Armor. Attacks 
that deal Damage to Shells will still damage the Character’s Wounds. 
 
CYBERNETIC ATTACHMENTS 
Cybernetic Attachments are Cybernetics that are built into, or onto 
Cybernetic Replacements and Shells. These can only be installed onto 
Body Locations that have a Shell or Replacement. 
 
AUGMENTATION PREJUDICE 
Characters with a large amount of Cybernetics are generally looked 
down on, fears, or avoided. Characters that heavily alt er their body 
are often treated as untrustworthy, as well. There are groups that 
may accept them more openly, like groups of other augmented users, 
or Characters with a fondness for the idea of cybernetics. 
 A good way to handle this is for every two visib le 
Cybernetics the Character has, others dealing with that Character will 
lower their Disposition towards them. The Disposition Chart is found 
in the GM Section of the Mythic Handbook.

===== PAGE 3 =====
HEAD ENHANCEMENT CYBERNETICS 
CYBERNETIC LOCATION INFORMATION COST  
Basic Eye Eye Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Eye or Right Eye 
A standard Eye replacement. Indistinguishable from a regular eye. EMP Special Rule will Blind the Character for the 
duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant costs 20 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant costs 40 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant costs 300 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
20 cR 
LCX-50 
Telescopic Eye 
Both Eyes Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Eye and Right Eye 
Multiplies the Character’s Perceptive Range based on one of three Tiers of this Cybernetic. EMP Special Rule will 
Blind the Character for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant increases Perceptive Range multiplier by 1.5 and costs 100 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant increases Perceptive Range multiplier by 2 and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant increases Perceptive Range multiplier by 2.5 and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break 
Points. 
100 cR 
FSL Core-Sight 
Augmentation 
Both Eyes Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Eye and Right Eye 
Reduces all Penalties from Blinding, Bright, Low -Light, and Darkness. EMP Special Rule will Blind the Character for 
the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant reduces Penalties by 10 and costs 100 cR.  50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant reduces Penalties by 15 and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant reduces Penalties by 20 and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
100 cR 
Lightwave 
Detection 
Augmentation 
Both Eyes Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Eye and Right Eye 
Gives Bonuses to seeing Camouflaged and Cloaked Characters. Cannot stack with VISR or other similar Equipment. 
EMP Special Rule will Blind the Character for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant gives a +5 Bonus and costs 100 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant gives a +10 Bonus and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant gives a +15 Bonus and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
100 cR 
Basic Ear Ear Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Ear or Right Ear 
A standard Ear replacement. Indistinguishable from a regular ear. EMP Special Rule will Deafen the Character for the 
duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant costs 20 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant costs 40 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant costs 300 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
20 cR 
ACX-50 Tactile 
Enhancement 
Suite 
Both Ears Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Ear and Right Ear 
Gives the Character the ability to track the direction that sounds are coming from as an Extended Action. If the 
Character stays still and focuses for two Full Actions, they may roll a  -(X) Investigation Skill Test. If Successful, the 
Character will know the direction the sound is coming from, but not the direct location. 
EMP Special Rule will Deafen the Character for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant gives a -30 Penalty to the Test and costs 100 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant gives a -25 Penalty to the Test and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant gives a -20 Penalty to the Test and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
100 cR 
Smart Noise 
Cancellation 
Both Ears Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Ear and Right Ear 
Allows the Character to reduce the effects of loud noises causing the Character to go Deaf. Does not reduce the 
effects of EMP causing deafness. Smart Noise Cancellation reduces the length of any Hearing Loss or Deafen ing 
effects, to a minimum of one Half Action.  
EMP Special Rule will Deafen the Character for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant reduces Deafness and Hearing loss by 1 Half Action and costs 100 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant reduces Deafness and Hearing loss by 2 Half Actions and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant reduces Deafness and Hearing loss by 3 Half Actions and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 
Break Points. 
100 cR 
ACX-Audio 
Filtering Suite 
Both Ears Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Ear and Right Ear 
Allows the Character to filter out all audio sources except for a set amount of  desired audio sources based on the 
Variant purchased. This includes only tracking one or two voices, tracking a vehicle and multiple voices, etc. Cannot 
filter noises such as close gunshots, explosions, and loud machinery.  
EMP Special Rule will Deafen the Character for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant can filter one audio source clearly and costs 100 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant filter up to two audio sources clearly and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant filter up to three audio sources clearly and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
100 cR 
Internal 
Olfactive 
Filtration Unit  
Nose Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Nose 
A sinus and Nose enhancement cybernetic that allows the Character to filter out toxic atmosphere for a set amount 
of Minutes per Variant. Takes 1 hour to filter to be usable again regardless of the Variant. 
EMP disables the device and stops the Character from being able to smell for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant can filter toxic atmosphere for 3 Minutes and costs 100 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant filter toxic atmosphere for 5 Minutes and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant filter toxic atmosphere for 8 Minutes and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
100 cR

===== PAGE 4 =====
HEAD ENHANCEMENT CYBERNETICS 
CYBERNETIC LOCATION INFORMATION COST  
Doplofi X-Ray 
Detection Eyes 
Both Eyes Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Eye and Right Eye 
Using various forms of precision wavelengths, these eyes attempt to produce a replication of movement on the other 
side of walls for the user. The eyes will pulse out wavelengths and attempt to wait for a change in frequency to detect 
movement through walls and to attempt to map out characters. When the data is received, each variant has a Bonus 
given to a Perception Test and a limit to how thick of a wall the Doplofi can work through. When used, it takes a Half 
Action of focusing to properly send and receive the data. During this, the Character makes a Perception Test with the 
modifier given by the Doplofi variant  used. The Doplofi will always bring back results of what it may think but 
depending on the success or failure of the Test, the Character could be given misinf ormation. This means that if a 
Character were to attempt to make an Attack through a wall at where they believe a Character would be the 
Character gains a -20 Penalty To Hit for each Degree of Failure received on the Test.  
 Doplofi can only be used if the  Character is standing still. If the Targets on the other side of the wall are 
moving more than 6 Meters before the Turn the Doplofi was used, the Perception Test gains an extra -10 Penalty. 
EMP Special Rule will Blind the Character for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant has a -10 to the Perception Test and can only be used with 4cm or thinner walls.  Costs 
200 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant has no Penalty or Bonus to the Perception Test and can only be used with 8cm or thinner 
walls. Costs 400 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant has a +10 to the Perception Test and can only be used with 16cm or thinner walls. Costs 
600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
200 cR 
Social Engineer 
Eye 
Both Eyes Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Eye and Right Eye 
The S.E.E (Social Engineer Eye) is able to scan the behavior and facial movement of a Target, once per Turn. At the 
beginning of the next Turn, S.E.E will attempt to let the User know the current Disposition of the Character and offer 
likely responses that would assist the User in Social Skill Tests and how to react with the Character. 
 To use S.E.E, the User must first roll a Charisma Test with  the listed Penalty based on the Variant being 
used. If Successful, S.E.E will give the User the Disposition of the Target and a +30 to their next Social Skill Test with 
the Characters scanned . S.E.E is always active and is a Free Action to use. Each varia nt can scan a set amount of 
people in a Round. It takes a Half Action the following Turn for the User to access and read through the data that was 
given. EMP Special Rule will Blind the Character for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant has a -10 to the Charisma Test and can scan one Character. Costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant has no Penalty or Bonus and can scan two Characters. Costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant has a +10 to the Charisma Test and can scan three Characters. C osts 600 cR. 10 Armor 
and 75 Break Points. 
150 cR 
 
CHEST ENHANCEMENT CYBERNETICS 
CYBERNETIC LOCATION INFORMATION COST  
ACX Applied 
Heart Pump 
Engine 
Heart Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Heart 
Forces the Character’s heart to beat while unconscious, alongside regulating blood flow. Reduces Bleedout Damage. 
EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant reduces Bleedout Damage by 1 per Turn and costs 100 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant reduces Bleedout Damage by 2 per Turn and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant reduces Bleedout Damage by 3 per Turn and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
100 cR 
Optican 
Titanium Lung  
Lungs Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Both Lungs 
Allows the Character to hold their breath longer. Each variant also allows the Character to make Charge and Run 
Actions if the Character is missing a Lung.  EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these 
benefits and forces the Character to hold their breath  for the duration of the EMP Effect.  Each variant also uses its 
multiplier given to increase how long the Character can Run and move during Narrative Time. 
• Economy Variant doubles total time Character can hold their breath and costs 100 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant triples total time Character can hold their breath and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant quadruples total time Character can hold their breath and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 
Break Points. 
100 cR 
ACX Stomach 
Platform 
Stomach Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Stomach 
A series of filters and storage units that collect water and filter toxins.  
EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant increases time needed before Starvation and Dehydration begins by 1 day and costs 100 
cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant increases time needed before Starvation and Dehydration begins by 2 days and costs 
300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant increases time needed before Starvation and Dehydration begins by 3 days and costs 600 
cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
100 cR 
Advanced Liver 
Filters 
Liver Sublocation Enhancement Cybernetic: Liver 
A Liver Attachment System that acts as a series of pre-filtration units before reaching the Liver.  The ALF Unit also 
better separates and stores glucose and nutrients for energy and blood health.  This unit also makes the Character 
unable to become intoxicated. 
EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant recovers from 1 extra level of Fatigue per hour and costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant recovers from 2 extra levels of Fatigue per hour and costs 400 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant recovers from 3 extra levels of Fatigue per hour and costs 750 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break 
Points. 
150 cR

===== PAGE 5 =====
ARM ENHANCEMENT CYBERNETICS 
CYBERNETIC LOCATION INFORMATION COST  
Force 
Amplification 
Struts 
Both Arms Location Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Arm and Right Arm 
Force Amplification Struts are installed through the Arms. These give Strength Characteristic upgrades. 
EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant increases the Strength Characteristic by 3 and costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant increases the Strength Characteristic by 5 and costs 450 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant increases the Strength Characteristic by 7 and costs 700 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
150 cR 
FSL Muscular 
Supports 
Both Arms Location Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Arm and Right Arm 
Muscular Supports that increase the Character’s Melee Damage for Punch and Elbow Attacks. 
EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant increases Melee Damage by 3 and costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant increases Melee Damage by 5 and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant increases Melee Damage by 7 and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
150 cR 
 
LEG ENHANCEMENT CYBERNETICS 
CYBERNETIC LOCATION INFORMATION COST  
Stride Package 
Leg Enhancers 
Both Legs Location Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Leg and Right Leg 
Muscular-level implant struts that increase the Character’s Agility Characteristic.  
EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant increases the Agility Characteristic by 3 and costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant increases the Agility Characteristic by 5 and costs 400 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant increases the Agility Characteristic by 7 and costs 750 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
150 cR 
FSL Strike Force 
Melee  
Both Legs Location Enhancement Cybernetic: Left Leg and Right Leg 
Muscular Supports that increase the Character’s Melee damage for Kick and Knee Attacks. Kick Attacks can also be 
made as an Attack that does not cost extra Melee Attacks to perform, but the Damage is reduced by 4. 
EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant increases Melee Damage by 3 and costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant increases Melee Damage by 5 and costs 400 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant increases Melee Damage by 7 and costs 750 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
150 cR 
 
UPPER BODY SHELL CYBERNETICS 
CYBERNETIC LOCATION INFORMATION COST  
SynMuTech 
MK2 [A] 
Both Arms  
and Chest 
Location Shell Cybernetic: Left Arm, Right Arm, and Chest 
Advanced Skin Shell Replacement that uses sophisticated synthetic muscle structures to give the Character Mythic 
Strength. EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP 
Effect. 
• Economy Variant increases Mythic Strength by 1 and costs 300 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant increases Mythic Strength by 2 and costs 600 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant increases Mythic Strength by 3 and costs 1,200 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
300 cR 
Ampu EMP 
Shield 
Both Arms 
and Chest 
Location Shell Cybernetic: Left Arm and Right Arm 
EMP Shielding that helps reduce the effects of EMP Special Rule Attacks and Effects. Reduces EMP (X) of an Attack 
or Effect that strikes the Character by a set amount, to a minimum of 0. 
• Economy Variant reduces EMP (X) of the Attack by 1 and costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant reduces EMP (X) of the Attack by 2 and costs 300 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant reduces EMP (X) of the Attack by 3 and costs 600 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
150 cR 
 
LOWER BODY SHELL CYBERNETICS 
CYBERNETIC LOCATION INFORMATION COST  
SynMuTech 
MK2 [L] 
Both Legs Location Shell Cybernetic: Left Leg and Right Leg 
Advanced Skin Shell Replacement that uses sophisticated synthetic muscle structures to give the Character Mythic 
Agility. EMP disables the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP 
Effect. 
• Economy Variant increases Mythic Agility by 1 and costs 300 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant increases Mythic Agility by 2 and costs 600 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant increases Mythic Agility by 3 and costs 1,200 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
300 cR 
Freefall Shock 
Absorbers 
Both Legs Location Shell Cybernetic: Left Leg and Right Leg 
Reduces the amount of dice rolled during Falling Damage as long as the Character lands on their feet. EMP disables 
the device and stops the Character from gaining these benefits for the duration of the EMP Effect. 
• Economy Variant reduces Falling Damage by one D10 and costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant reduces Falling Damage by two D10 and costs 400 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant reduces Falling Damage by three D10 and costs 750 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
150 cR

===== PAGE 6 =====
CYBERNETIC LIMB ATTACHMENTS 
CYBERNETIC LOCATION INFORMATION COST  
ACX Quickdraw 
Compartment 
Chosen 
Bicep or 
Thigh 
Sublocation Cybernetic Attachment: Chosen Bicep or Thigh  
An attachment that adds a compartment for Concealable and Dual Wield Weapons.  This compartment is able to 
store or attach to these weapons that allows the Character to draw the weapon as a Free Action. EMP disables the 
device and will not allow for a Free Action to draw the weapon.  May also be used with Equipment that can be fit 
within the compartment and is not limited to only weapons. 
• Economy Variant compartment for 0.9 kg and lighter weapons and costs 150 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant compartment for 1.3kg and lighter weapons and costs 400 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant compartment for 1.8kg and lighter weapons and costs 750 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break 
Points. 
150 cR 
Slingblade 
Platform 
Chosen 
Bicep 
Sublocation Shell Cybernetic: Chosen Bicep 
The Slingblade Platform installs two folding Melee Weapons into the Bicep of the Character. One may be installed 
per Arm. Each Variant has a weight limitation that the weapon may be. The Slingblade Platform extends the weapons 
out of the biceps as Melee Weapons, while leaving the hands free.  Folding and Unfolding the Slingblade Platform 
takes a Half Action. The Character may make a Melee Attack while unfolding the Slingblade Platform. This Attack is 
at a -10 Penalty To Hit but will deal +3 Damage. Any Melee or Range Attacks made with the hands while the Slingblade 
Platform is unfolded will be at a -30 Penalty To Hit. 
 EMP disables the device, and the Slingblade Platform cannot extend and unfold. I f already unfolded, 
cannot be put away during the duration of the EMP effect. 
 *The Melee Weapon must be purchased separately at triple the standard price of the weapon, as it must 
be made custom to work with the Slingblade Platform. 
• Economy Variant weight limit is 0.6 kg and costs 50 cR. 50 Break Points. 
• Standard Variant weight limit is 1 kg costs 100 cR. 65 Break Points. 
• Combat Variant weight limit is 2 kg and costs 150 cR. 10 Armor and 75 Break Points. 
50 cR* 
 
CYBERNETIC FULL LIMB REPLACEMENT 
CYBERNETIC INFORMATION COST  
Economy Artificial 
Limb Replacement 
Bionic limb replacement. If this limb takes 50 damage, it is destroyed. Has a natural Armor Rating of 5, which 
stacks with the armor that is being worn. It has no Toughness Modifier and cannot gain any benefits from Mythic 
Characteristics. For every 10 points of damage the arm takes, Actions with the arm are at a -5. If destroyed, the 
limb is useless or gone, depending on the severity of the damage taken. Adds 2 kg to the Character’s Weight. 
 If used as a Leg replacement for a Character with Mythic Agility, the Character halves the Mythic Agility 
benefits gained for Movement Speed. 
10 
Standard Artificial 
Limb Replacement 
Bionic limb replacement. If this limb takes 75 damage, it is destroyed. Has a natural Armor Rating of 8, which 
stacks with the armor that is being worn. It has no Toughness Modifier and cannot gain any benefits from Mythic 
Characteristics. For every 15 points of damage the arm takes, Actions with the arm are at a -5. If destroyed, the 
limb is useless or gone, depending on the severity of the damage taken. Adds 2 kg to the Character’s Weight. 
 If used as a Leg replacement for a Character with Mythic Agility, the Character halves the Mythic Agility 
benefits gained for Movement Speed. 
50 
Combat Artificial 
Limb Replacement 
Bionic limb replacement. If this limb takes 100 damage, it is destroyed. Has a natural Armor Rating of 10, which 
stacks with the armor that is being worn. It has no Toughness Modifier but can gain benefits from Mythic Strength 
and Mythic Agility. For every 20 points of damage the arm takes, Actions with the arm are at a -5. If destroyed, 
the limb is useless or gone, depending on the severity of the damage taken. Adds 2 kg to the Character’s Weight. 
150
